At about 10,000 BC, a tribe of hunter-gatherers called the Yagahl live in a remote mountain range in the Urals and survive by killing woolly mammoths. The camp is led by a hunter who has proven his bravery by killing a mammoth single-handedly, and taking the White Spear. The people also strongly venerate an elderly Neanderthal woman, the last of her kind, called Old Mother, who has shamanistic powers. As time goes by, the mammoths that supply the people start to dwindle, and the chief of the tribe finds a young girl with blue eyes named Evolet who survived a massacre of her village, perpetrated by what Old Mother calls "four-legged demons" who will come when "the Yagahl go on their last hunt". The chief of the village, not believing in Old Mothers prophecy and desperate to feed his people, leaves and gives the White Spear to his friend TicTic, who also watches over DLeh, the chiefs son. As TicTic alone is entrusted to know of the quest, all the others in the tribe including DLehs rival, KaRen, believe that DLehs father was a coward and fled. Over time, DLeh and Evolet fall in love and become close. When the mammoths finally come, DLeh and the other men of the tribe hunt them under TicTics leadership, and DLeh manages to kill one by causing the beast into impaling itself on his spear, inadvertently winning the White Spear. He also wins Evolet in marriage. However, consumed by the guilt that he did not earn the White Spear fairly, after speaking with TicTic, he gives the White Spear up and by effect, forfeits his marriage to Evolet. The next day, horse-raiders attack the camp, enslaving Evolet and several others and killing many of the tribe. DLeh, TicTic, KaRen and the young boy Baku set out to rescue Evolet and their fellow Yagahl, but she is recaptured with KaRen and Baku during an attack on the slavers by Terror Birds. TicTic is wounded by the predators during the battle. DLeh and the injured TicTic continue on. When DLeh is out hunting, he falls into a pit-trap. When he wakes from the fall, he rescues a Smilodon trapped with him in the pit and then escapes himself. After TicTic recovers, they make their way to a village nearby and learn of a prophecy from the Naku, a tribe they meet: whoever talks to a Smilodon that they call the "Spear-Tooth" will help free their people. DLeh realizes the prophecy is about him when the sabertooth refuses to kill him when they next meet. They also learn that DLehs father, the chief of the Yagahl, was a guest of the Naku and learned from them until the slavers took him captive and TicTic finally reveals to DLeh why his father left. Several tribes agree to form a coalition to pursue the raiders that stole their families with DLeh as their leader. They soon find the ships holding Evolet and their companions. However, with no means to follow the ships, they journey through a vast desert, eventually discovering an advanced civilization similar to ancient Egypt, ruled by an enigmatic figure known as "The Almighty". In this civilization Evolet, Baku and the other kidnapped Yagahl are forced to work as slaves. There, the warlord who kidnapped Evolet tries to coerce her into loving him, only to be arrested by The Almighty when they find he has taken her without permission. During a night scouting raid, DLeh learns of the Almighty and the fate of his father, who perished as a slave. However, the guards see them and attempt to warn the Almighty. TicTic dies from injuries sustained in the fight that follows with the guards, though not before killing them before they can raise the alarm. The Almightys priests also meanwhile come to believe that Evolet is destined to kill The Almighty, based on the whip scars on her hands matching the stars they call the "Mark of the Hunter" and an ancient prophecy foreseeing their civilizations downfall. The Almighty realizes that Evolet is not the focus of the prophecy, but the hunters (DLehs) herald. DLeh then starts a rebellion among the slaves, killing many of the Almightys forces, though KaRen is killed. The Almighty offers Evolet and the other hunters to DLeh in exchange for abandoning his rebellion. DLeh feigns acceptance of the deal but throws a spear at The Almighty and kills him. During the ensuing battle, Evolet dies at the hands of the warlord before he in turn is killed by DLeh, but is restored to life by the Old Mother sacrificing her own life with her powers. With the Almighty and his people dead and his civilization destroyed, the Yagahl bid farewell to the other tribes and return home with seeds given to them by the Naku people to begin farming and start a new life.
10,000 BC (film)
2008