The Radcliffe family and their 101 Dalmatians are preparing to move to their "Dalmatian Plantation", a home in the countryside with plenty of room for all of them. However, Patch, one of the puppies, feels ignored and wishes to be unique like his television hero, Thunderbolt. While watching The Thunderbolt Adventure Hour, he hears about a chance to appear on the show alongside Thunderbolt. Later, he is accidentally left behind when his family leaves for the plantation. Patch then decides to head for the audition event nearby to meet his hero and win a guest spot on the show. He fails to impress Thunderbolt and the producers, however; dejected by this, he leaves. Meanwhile, Lil Lightning, Thunderbolts sidekick on the show who is jealous of his success, manipulates Thunderbolt into believing the audition event is actually a cover for the producers to find a dog they could replace him with. After Thunderbolt leaves to prove he is actually a hero and not just an actor, Lil Lightning tricks the producers into making himself the hero of his own show. Thunderbolt eventually runs into Patch and realizes he is extremely knowledgeable about his heroic feats on the show. As a result, he appoints him as an advisor for when he tries to commit heroic acts in real life, though he unknowingly does more harm than good every time. All the while, Patch continues to believe Thunderbolts escapades on the show are all real. Elsewhere in London, Cruella de Vil is under probation and a restraining order for her past behavior, which no longer allows to maintain her old lifestyle. Despondent from this, she attempts to soothe her fixation on spots with the help of Lars, a French beatnik artist. In order to inspire him, she restarts her hunt for the Dalmatians, using a newspaper picture of Patch to find their new address. As Patchs family realizes he is missing and goes back to London to find him, Cruella bails out her former henchmen, Jasper and Horace, and sends them in a stolen dog food truck to steal the remaining puppies. They succeed after dealing with Nanny, and they take them to Lars. When Cruella requests making a new canvas out of their fur, Lars angrily refuses, not wanting them to be harmed. Angered, she has him bound and gagged, and returns to her original plan of making a Dalmatian fur coat. The captured puppies use the Twilight Bark to send a distress signal, which is picked up by Patch and Thunderbolt, and they set out to save Patchs family. On the way, they encounter Lil Lightning, who has learned about Thunderbolts recent escapades. He follows them and convinces Thunderbolt not to use Patchs stealth plan, but to openly attack. As a result, Cruella knocks Thunderbolt unconscious and he and Patch are captured. Lil Lightning sneaks into the building, reveals that Thunderbolt is a fraud, and tells him that there was never any recasting plan before fleeing. Crushed by this revelation, and Thunderbolt telling him that he is really an actor, Patch falls into despair, but his siblings restore his spirit by reminding him that Thunderbolt escaped a similar predicament in an episode on his show. Patch breaks out and releases his family, but Thunderbolt remains behind out of shame. The Dalmatians escape through the buildings roof, while Thunderbolt eventually decides to escape from his cage and free Lars. The puppies steal a double-decker bus, but Cruella, Jasper, and Horace discover the escape and pursue them in their stolen truck. A chase ensues through the streets of London; it crashes through the set of Lil Lightnings new show in the process, and he is flown into the windshield. Cruella, Jasper, and Horace corner the puppies in an alley. Patch tries to hold them off while the others escape, but they are undaunted. Thunderbolt arrives, having been driven to the scene by Lars, and fakes a heart attack. In the process, he gains Lil Lightnings sympathy and makes Cruella, in her distraction, knock out Jasper and Horace and then incapacitate herself. Patch retreats back to the bus and puts it in reverse, sending Cruella, Jasper, Horace, and Lil Lightning scrambling into the River Thames, along with their stolen truck. The police arrest Lil Lightning, Jasper, and Horace while Cruella, now driven completely insane, is sent to a mental institute. Patchs parents, the Radcliffes, and Nanny all arrive and are introduced to Thunderbolt. They thank him, but he gives all of the credit to Patch. In a post-credits scene, Patch stars as Thunderbolts new sidekick in his show, while the other puppies are extras. The group chases the villain away into the sunset.
101 Dalmatians II: Patch's London Adventure
2003