Ex-convicts Emil Slovak (Karel Roden) and Oleg Razgul (Oleg Taktarov) arrive in the United States to claim their part of a bank heist in Russia (or in the Czech Republic). Oleg steals a video camera from a Make-Your-Own-Movie establishment. At the rundown apartment of their old partner, they are denied their share, so Emil fatally stabs him and his wife as Oleg tapes it with the camera. Czech immigrant Daphne Handlova (Vera Farmiga) witnesses the murders from the bathroom, then escapes before they can kill her as well. To hide the crime, Emil burns down the apartment. Jordy Warsaw (Edward Burns) is an arson investigator assigned to the case. Eddie Flemming (Robert De Niro) is a flamboyant New York City detective who is also called to the scene. Flemming is such a high-profile celebrity that he is followed around by a reporter from a tabloid TV show, Top Story, hosted by the arrogant Robert Hawkins (Kelsey Grammer). Everywhere he goes, citizens cheer him on. Flemming and Warsaw agree to work the case together. While checking out the crowd, Warsaw spots Daphne trying to get his attention, but she disappears. Emil calls an escort service and asks for a "Czech girl." One calling herself Honey (Noelle Evans) arrives, whom he kills but not before getting the address of the escort service. Oleg tapes the murder. He continually films everything, claiming he wants to be the next Frank Capra. Flemming and Warsaw investigate her murder, visiting the escort service. Rose Hearn (Charlize Theron), who runs it, tells them that the girl Warsaw described doesnt work for her but rather a hairdresser. She mentions a couple of other guys having just asked her the same questions. Flemming and Warsaw arrive at the hair salon just after Emil and Oleg have warned Daphne to keep quiet. Flemming notices someone filming them from across the street. A foot chase begins, Flemmings regular partner Leon Jackson (Avery Brooks) being hit with a glass bottle and his wallet stolen. Emil finds a card with Flemmings name and address. He is jealous of Flemmings celebrity status and is convinced that anyone in America can get away with anything. On the night Flemming is to propose to his girlfriend Nicolette Karas (Melina Kanakaredes), Oleg and Emil sneak into his house and bind Flemming to a chair. While Oleg is recording, Emil explains his plan to Flemming: He will kill him and sell the tape to Top Story. After being committed to an insane asylum, he will declare that he is actually sane. Since he cant be tried again, he will get off, collecting royalties from his books and movies. Fleming attacks them with his chair (while still taped to it), but Emil gets the upper-hand and stabs him in the chest, mortally wounding him. Emil then suffocates and kills Flemming with a pillow. The entire city is in mourning. Emil calls Hawkins to offer a tape of the killing that he is willing to sell to Top Story. Hawkins pays him $1 million for it. Warsaw and the entire police force are furious, unable to believe that the TV show would air it, especially since Hawkinss main reporter is Nicolette. Emil and Oleg sit in a Planet Hollywood to watch the show in public. Halfway through the broadcast, customers realize that Emil and Oleg are right there with them and panic. Police arrive and arrest Emil, while Oleg escapes. Instead of delivering his suspect to the police station, Warsaw takes Emil to an abandoned warehouse to kill him. Other police arrive just in time and take Emil into custody. Everything goes as planned for Emil, now a celebrity who is pleading insanity. His lawyer agrees to work for 30% of the royalties Emil will receive for his story. Meanwhile, in hiding, Oleg becomes jealous of the notoriety that Emil is receiving. While the lawyer is leading Emil away, surrounded by the media, Warsaw provokes an argument, with the Top Story crew recording the whole thing. Oleg quietly approaches Hawkins and hands him the tape of Emil explaining his plan to Flemming, proving he was sane the whole time. Hawkins shouts out to Emil about the evidence in his possession. Emil grabs a policemans gun, shoots Oleg and grabs Nicolette, who is covering the story, threatening to shoot her. Against orders, Warsaw shoots Emil a dozen times in the chest to avenge Flemmings murder. An officer observes that Oleg is still alive. Hawkins rushes to his side, where Oleg says a final few words about the movie that is still being taped, just before he dies. Hawkins attempts to get a comment from Warsaw, who punches him and walks away as the police all smile with approval.
15 Minutes
2001