In 1989, 17-year-old Mike ODonnell (Zac Efron) learns during the start of his high school championship basketball game his girlfriend Scarlet Porter (Allison Miller) is pregnant. Moments after the game begins, he leaves the game and goes after Scarlet, abandoning his hopes of going to college and becoming a professional basketball player. Nearly two decades later, Mike (Matthew Perry), now 37 years old, finds his life stalled. Scarlet (Leslie Mann), now his wife and mother of their two children, has separated from him, forcing him to move in with his geeky, yet extremely wealthy, best friend, Ned Gold (Thomas Lennon). He is fired from his job. His high school-age children, 17-year-old Maggie (Michelle Trachtenberg) and 16-year-old Alex (Sterling Knight) want nothing to do with him. Later, while visiting his high school to reminisce, an encounter with a mysterious janitor (Brian Doyle-Murray) transforms Mike back into his 17-year-old self. After convincing Ned of his identity, Ned believes that Mikes transformation was caused by a mystical spirit guide who is trying to steer him on a better path. Mike enrolls in high school posing as Mark Gold, Neds son, and plans to go to college on a basketball scholarship. As he befriends his bullied son and discovers that his daughter has a boyfriend, Stan (Hunter Parrish), who does not respect her and frequently torments Alex, Mike comes to believe that his mission is to help them. Through their children, Mike spends time with Scarlet, who notes his remarkable resemblance to her husband, but rationalizes it as an odd coincidence. Deciding to also try and fix his relationship with Scarlet, Mike begins to finish (under the pretense of getting "volunteer credit") all of the garden projects he abandoned as an adult. He does his best to separate Stan and Maggie while also encouraging Alex to be more confident so he can make the basketball team and go out with a girl he has a crush on. Mike has difficulty resisting his desire for Scarlet despite the relationships clear inappropriateness. Ned, meanwhile, begins to pursue the schools principal through increasingly extravagant stunts in order to win her affections, to which she adamantly rebukes. After Mike and Alex help win a basketball game, Mike throws a party at Neds house. When Scarlet arrives to reprimand her children for attending a party, Mike shows her that Alex has finally managed to get together with his crush, leading Mike and Scarlet to have an intimate conversation where Mike accidentally tries to kiss her. Disgusted, she storms off as Mike tries unsuccessfully to explain his true identity. On the day of the court hearing to finalize Scarlet and Mikes divorce, Mike makes one last attempt to win her back (as Mark) by reading a supposed letter from Mike. He states that although he couldnt set things right in the beginning of his life, it doesnt change the fact that he still loves her. After he exits, Scarlet notices that the "letter" is actually the directions to the courtroom and she begins to grow curious. As a result, she postpones the divorce by a month. Frustrated that he could not salvage his marriage, Mike decides to once again pursue a scholarship and move on with a new life. During a high school basketball game, Mike reveals himself to Scarlet. As Scarlet runs away, Mike decides to chase her down, but not before handing the ball off to his son. Mike is then transformed back into his 37-year-old self, and reunites with Scarlet. As Mike prepares for his first day as the new coach at his childrens school, Ned, who has successfully started a relationship with the principal, gifts him a whistle, both happy with their new starts in life.
17 Again (film)
2009