Lisa (Mandy Moore) and Kate (Claire Holt) are sisters on holiday in Mexico. Lisas boyfriend broke up with her because "she made the relationship boring". Kate tries to cheer Lisa up and takes her out drinking and dancing at 1:00 am. The sisters meet a pair of local men at a bar and they convince them to go out with them on their boat to watch sharks from a diving cage. Lisa hesitates but Kate persuades her saying it would show Lisas boyfriend that she isnt boring and make him regret breaking up with her. The sisters arrive at the boat dock. At first sight, the boat is lackluster and Lisa is immediately wary of it and its owner, Captain Taylor. Upon meeting the girls, the captain asks if the sisters are experienced divers. Kate is a certified diver but Lisa is new to diving, so they lie and say they are both experienced. The dive cage is old and rusty and hangs from a thin chains from an old crane, adding further to Lisas apprehensions. As they reach the diving spot, Captain Taylor baits the sharks. Lisa is skeptical about the entire dive, but Captain Taylor dismisses her concerns. The locals dive first in the cage. Unbeknownst to everyone on the boat, the cable supporting the cage starts to fray. The men return to the surface and Captain Taylor prepares to send Lisa and Kate down. When Lisa and Kate are in the cage, the cable breaks and the cage sinks to the bottom, some 47 meters below the surface and out of communication range with the boat. Kate swims up seven meters to resume communications with Captain Taylor, who tells her Javier (Chris J. Johnson) will be coming down with a spare winch to pull them up. He also advises them to stay in the cage as the sharks are circling. Both women are quickly running out of air, but they wait in the cage until they see a torch in the distance. Thinking that Javier cannot see them, Lisa swims out to get him, as Kates air is lower due to the previous swim. Lisa swims towards the light, close to the bottom to avoid shark attacks from the below. A shark tries to attack Lisa but she swims into a small grotto to avoid it. Continuing to go towards the light, she comes to a crevasse with no bottom in sight. Swimming over the cliff towards the light she finds the torch but not Javier. While looking around, she gets confused about her distance from the cage and Kate. Just as Javier appears and attempts to usher her back towards safety, he is attacked and killed by a shark. Lisa takes Javiers spear gun and the spare winch, and swims back towards the cage. With the newly acquired torch as well as the spear gun, Lisa swims up and notifies Taylor to pull them up. Disaster strikes as they are being winched to safety: The replacement winch line also snaps and the cage sinks back to the bottom. The cage lands on Lisas leg, pinning her down. Lisa and Kate panic as they realize they are now both out of options and air. Kate swims back up to communication range to tell Taylor they are low on air and that Lisa is pinned down. Taylor sends some air tanks down and tells them the Mexican coast guard is an hour out. He also warns her that the second tank may cause nitrogen narcosis which can lead to hallucinations. Kate finds the air tanks just as her original tank runs empty. She also finds three flares to signal the coast guard. As she returns to the cage, Kate is attacked and dragged away by a shark. Lisa, still pinned and running low on air, uses the spear from the spear gun to pull the tank towards her. In the process, the spear cuts her hand. She dons the new tank, and then hears Kate over the radio. Kate is injured and low on air, and her blood is attracting more sharks. Lisa says she will find her, and uses her BCD to lift up the cage, freeing her leg. After Lisa finds Kate, Taylor tells them the coast guard is still some time out and they need to get back in the cage. Lisa adamantly refuses due to the nature of Kates wounds, and they decide to swim to the surface. As they swim to the surface, they use one of the three flares to scare the sharks. At the 20-meter mark, they are reminded by Taylor they must wait five minutes to decompress and avoid nitrogen narcosis. As the first flare burns out, Kate tries to light the second flare but drops it and it sinks to the bottom. As she lights the third flare she sees 3 sharks close in front of her. The sisters are now surrounded by sharks and must rush to the surface. Taylor yells for them to drop their gear and make a break for the surface. They swim as fast as they can towards the surface close to the boat. As they cling to a life ring to get to the boat, one of the sharks bites Lisas leg and pulls her back down into the water. Lisa hits the shark and gouges its eye out and the shark releases her. Captain Taylor and the other men pull Lisa and Kate onto the boat and begin administering first aid. However, as Lisa stares at her hand on the deck of the boat, she realizes she has been hallucinating due to nitrogen narcosis. She realizes she is still at the bottom with her leg pinned by the cage. She laughs and imagines that she is talking to Kate on the boat deck. The coast guard comes to rescue her and carries Lisa to the surface without Kate. Lisa, as she is slowly and cautiously being brought to the surface, comes out of her hallucination, and realizes her sister is not with her. She starts to cry and call out to Kate, who has been dead since the shark attacked and dragged her away.
47 Meters Down
2017