In the summer of 1900, starvation is widespread in China, affecting 100 million, while a thousand foreigners from various industrialized countries exploit their positions inside Pekings legations to seek control of the weakened country. The Boxers oppose Christianity and are agitating against the foreign powers. The turmoil in China is worsened because Boxer secret societies have tacit approval from the Dowager Empress Cixi (Flora Robson). Frustrated by the foreign encroachment, with 13 of Chinas 18 provinces having been forced into territorial concessions to those powers, the Empress encourages Boxers to attack all foreigners in Peking and elsewhere in China. When the Empress does not punish the assassination of the German ambassador in Peking and "suggests" foreigners leave, a violent siege of the foreign legations district of Peking erupts (lasting from June 20 to August 14, 1900). Foreign embassies in Peking are gripped by terror as Boxers set about killing Christians in an anti-western nationalistic fever. The head of the US military garrison is US Marine Major Matt Lewis (Charlton Heston), an experienced China hand who knows local conditions well. A love interest blossoms between Major Lewis and Baroness Natasha Ivanoff (Ava Gardner), a Russian aristocrat, who it is revealed had an affair with a Chinese General, causing her Russian husband to commit suicide. The Russian Imperial Minister, who is Natashas brother-in-law, has revoked Natashas visa in attempts to recover a valuable necklace from the Baroness. Although the Baroness tries leaving Peking as the siege starts she returns to Major Lewis, and volunteers in the hospital which is battered by the siege and is running out of supplies. To help defenders, the Baroness exchanges her valuable necklace for medical supplies and food, although is wounded in the process and later dies. Lewis leads the small contingent of 400 multinational soldiers and American Marines defending the compound. As the siege worsens, Maj. Lewis forms an alliance with the senior officer at the British Embassy, Sir Arthur Robinson (David Niven), to keep the Boxers at bay, pending the arrival of a British relief force led by Admiral Sydney. After hearing that the British force has been repulsed by Chinese forces, Maj. Lewis and Sir Arthur succeed in blowing up a Chinese ammunition dump. As foreign defenders conserve food and water while trying to save hungry children, hoping for reinforcements from other countries, the Empress continues plotting with the Boxers to break the siege with the aid of Chinese troops. Eventually, another relief force composed of the Eight-Nation Alliance arrives to put down the Chinese rebellion, reaching Peking on the fifty-fifth day. They relieve the siege of the foreign legations following the Battle of Peking. The film ends by foreshadowing the demise of the Qing Dynasty, rulers of China for the previous two and one-half centuries.
55 Days at Peking
1963