Amy (Mila Kunis) is now in a happy relationship with Jesse (Jay Hernandez) and is looking forward to having a simple Christmas. Her plans are derailed when her overly critical mother, Ruth (Christine Baranski), texts her to say she is coming for Christmas. Meanwhile, Kiki (Kristen Bell) is still overworked with her four kids but now her husband Kent is much more helpful. Kiki is surprised when her mother Sandy (Cheryl Hines) shows up three days earlier than expected and is planning to spend the next three weeks with Kiki. Sandy’s love for Kiki is overwhelming, and smothering Kiki. When Carla (Kathryn Hahn) gets home, her mother, Isis (Susan Sarandon), has arrived, telling her she intends to spend time with her for the first time in years. Surprised by this turn of events Carla is excited to spend time with her. Eventually, Amy, Kiki and Carla go to the mall where they express their misery over the holidays. But while commiserating about the pressures of the holidays they make a pact to “take Christmas back”. Ruth tries to create a spectacle out of Christmas, rather than keeping it simple like Amy wanted. In an effort to tamp down those plans Amy takes the family to Sky Zone to meet up with Kiki and Carla and their families. Ruth, Sandy and Isis all meet and chat while their daughters have fun with their kids. At work, Carla meets an erotic dancer named Ty (Justin Hartley), who says he is competing in a Sexy Santa competition and he asks Carla to be his date, which she enthusiastically accepts. Kiki continues to have issues with her mother’s overbearing ways and decides to bring Sandy to Dr. Karl (Wanda Sykes) to discuss these issues. This leads to a breakdown in communication leading to Kiki scolding Sandy and causing her to leave the session. Amy and Kiki join Carla as they attend the Sexy Santa show. All the ladies in the room are impressed with Tys dancing. To everyones surprise, Isis gets up on the bar and starts dancing with Ty. Carla runs up to get Ty back, leading to a fight. When Carla brings Isis home, Isis tells her she needs money for a new investment, but Carla knows shes just going to gamble it all away and then disappear from Carlas life like its been for years. Nonetheless, Carla relents and loans Isis the money. On Christmas Eve, Sandy tells Kiki that she put up a cash offer for the house next door so that she can live right next to Kiki. Finally, Kiki lashes out and tells Sandy she cannot live next door and that she wants some space. Sandy leaves the room crying. Amy gets angry with Ruth when she discovers Ruth has invited a bunch of strangers over to her home to throw an elaborate Christmas party, exactly what Amy did not want. Amy loses her temper and demands everyone leave her home and tells Ruth to leave and get out of her life forever. Her kids, Jane and Dylan, witness this outburst and become upset with Amy. Meanwhile, Carla finds a note from Isis indicating she has just taken off with the money she lent her. Kiki is all alone as well. Ruth goes to church for Midnight Mass and is, surprisingly, joined by Sandy and Isis. All the ladies criticize each other for their efforts as mothers, with each of them realizing their flaws. Amy’s father goes to her to talk about Ruth and the horrible fight they had, but acknowledging that while Ruth can be difficult to deal with, she has always been insecure over her work as a mom toward Amy, always worried whether or not she was doing a good job as a mother, but she always had the right intentions and loved Amy unconditionally. Amy goes to the church to try and repair her relationship with her mother. They apologize to each other and express their love. Once the clock strikes midnight, Amy and Ruth rush home to fix Christmas. On Christmas morning, Jane and Dylan go downstairs to see that Ruth has returned, the relationship has been repaired and the house looking wonderful with decorations and gifts. Kiki makes up with Sandy, who tells her she put the neighboring house on the market and admits that shes just always felt lonely on Christmas since Kikis father died. Carla is then visited by Isis, who is serious about turning her life around and has a new job at Sky Zone. All the families get together and Ruth, Sandy and Isis announce that they have become friends and are now planning to take a trip to Las Vegas.
A Bad Moms Christmas
2017