A barber, Buzz Curtis (Bud Abbott), and a porter, Abercrombie (Lou Costello), work for a Hollywood salon. They are sent to the office of agent Norman Royce (Warner Anderson) to give him a haircut and a shoeshine. On the way there they run into former co-worker Claire Warren (Frances Rafferty), who is about to star as the lead in a new musical. At the same time her co-star Gregory LeMaise (Carleton G. Young), whose fame is dwindling, arrives and invites her to join him at lunch. She declines, which angers him. While at the agents office Buzz and Abercrombie witness LeMaise enter and declare to Royce that he cannot work with Claire. Royce, who has just seen a young singer, Jeff Parker (Robert Stanton) audition, fires LeMaise and offers the job to Parker. This causes LeMaise to change his mind, and Royce does as well, giving LeMaise his job back. Buzz and Abercrombie quickly switch careers and become Parkers agents, and head to the studios chief, Mr. Kavanaugh (Donald MacBride), to find a role for Parker. Unfortunately, when they meet up with Kavanaugh its because they just crashed their car into his at the studio gate. Kavanaugh bans them from the lot, but they manage to sneak back in with a group of extras. Once inside they find themselves at the wardrobe department and Buzz gets dressed as a cop and Abercrombie as a tramp. They use their newfound disguises to roam the lot. Later, Buzz and Abercrombie try to help Parker get the role by getting LeMaise out of the picture by trying to start a fight with him. Their plan is to photograph him hitting Abercrombie and then having him arrested. The plan goes off without a hitch until Abercombie falls overboard after being hit and is feared drowned. LeMaise decides to hide, and Parker is given the role in his place. LeMaise eventually discovers that Abercrombie is still alive and chases him around the backlot. LeMaise eventually is caught, and Claire and Parker become famous when the film is successful. Subsequently, Buzz and Abercrombie become big-time agents in Hollywood.
Abbott and Costello in Hollywood
1945