Celebrated stage actor Anthony "Tony" John, riding high on the success of his current comedy "A Gentlemans Gentleman," is offered the lead in a new production of Shakespeares Othello by theatrical producer Max Lasker. Lasker also wants Tonys ex-wife, Brita, to co-star as Desdemona. Tony initially declines the offer to the relief of director Victor Donlan, who knows Tony becomes overly involved in his roles. Brita agrees with Donlan and warns press agent Bill Friend that although Tonys mood is delightful when appearing in a comedy, he is terrifying when appearing in a drama. Tony changes his mind after becoming obsessed with the idea of portraying Othello. Tony meets waitress Pat Kroll at an Italian restaurant, and the two soon begin an affair. Brita reluctantly accepts the role of Desdemona and rehearsals begin. The production opens to rave reviews, but Tony becomes absorbed in his role and begins to hear voices. Tony sees jealousy as the key to his character. On the 300th performance of the play, during Othellos "kiss of death" scene with Desdemona, Tony nearly chokes Brita to death after Brita shows him a locket Bill gave her for her birthday. When the play begins its second year, Tony asks Brita to re-marry him, but she refuses. Tony suspects Brita is in love with Bill. Enraged, Tony goes to Pats apartment and kills her with Othellos "kiss of death." Tony returns to Britas and falls asleep on her couch. The next day, reporter Al Cooley offers Bill front page publicity for Tonys play by pointing out the similarities between Pats murder and Othellos "kiss of death." Tony is enraged when he sees the story, and fights Bill. Bill suspects Tony is Pats killer and goes to the police, only to find that Pats drunken neighbor has been arrested for her murder. Tony demands Bills dismissal, and Bill plans a short vacation. Bill tells Brita he loves her, but Brita does not return his feelings. However, Brita tells Bill that Tony left her home on the night of Pats murder. Bill hires an actress to dress up like Pat, wear Pats earrings, and plants her as a waitress in the restaurant where Pat worked. Bill invites Tony to the restaurant, and with police captain Pete Bonner watching, Tony becomes distraught upon seeing Pats "double" and rushes out of the restaurant. Bill and the police follow Tony to the theater. Upon the conclusion of the performance of Othello that evening, a guilt-ridden Tony stabs himself, confesses all and dies backstage.
A Double Life (1947 film)
1947