In late 1950s America, a drunken drifter, Larry Rhodes (Andy Griffith), is plucked out of a rural Arkansas jail by Marcia Jeffries (Patricia Neal) to sing on a radio show at station KGRK. His raw voice, folksy humor and personal charm bring about a strong local following, and he lands a television show in Memphis, Tennessee under the stage name "Lonesome" Rhodes, given to him on a whim by Jeffries. With the support of the shows staff writer Mel Miller (Walter Matthau) and Jeffries, the charismatic Rhodes ad libs his way to Memphis area popularity. When he pokes fun at his sponsor, a mattress company, they initially pull their ads—but when his adoring audience revolts, burning mattresses in the street, the sponsor discovers that Rhodes irreverent pitches actually increased sales by 55%, and returns to the air with a new awareness of his power of persuasion. Rhodes also begins an affair with Jeffries and proposes to her. An ambitious office worker at the mattress company, Joey DePalma (Anthony Franciosa), puts together a deal for Rhodes to star in his own TV show in New York City. The sponsor is Vitajex, an energy supplement which Rhodes ingeniously pitches as a yellow pill which will make men energetic and sexually powerful. Rhodes fame, influence and ego balloon. He is approached to help with the TV marketing of a Presidential hopeful, Senator Worthington Fuller. Rhodes re-brands the stuffy conservative Fuller with a folksy nickname and promotes him on television. In contrast to his friendly onscreen persona, Rhodes in private life has become an egomaniac who berates his staff. Jeffries hopes to marry Rhodes are dashed, first when a woman (Kay Medford) turns up claiming to be Rhodes legitimate wife, and then when Rhodes suddenly elopes with a 17-year-old drum majorette (Lee Remick). When Rhodes says he will "give" 10% of his earnings to Jeffries, she furiously reminds Rhodes of her large role in his success, and demands to be made an equal partner on paper. Rhodes agrees. Ultimately, Rhodes ascent into fame and arrogance begins to turn on him. DePalma has an affair with Rhodes young wife; Rhodes dumps her, but cannot get out of his business arrangement with DePalma, who threatens to reveal Rhodes own secrets. Seeking solace, Rhodes pays a night visit to Jeffries apartment. She hides her feelings of repulsion from him, but gets away from his presence as quickly as she can. She later visits the set of his television show, and activates a live microphone over the ending credits that, unbeknownst to Rhodes, broadcasts him mocking Fuller and going on a vitriolic rant about the stupidity of his TV audience, calling them "idiots", "guinea pigs", and "trained seals". Unaware that his words have gone out over the airwaves eliciting many angry calls to local television stations and the network, Rhodes departs the television studio in a jovial mood and prophetically tells the elevator operator that he is going "all the way down". As the elevator numbers go down to 0, his popularity is plummeting as well. DePalma is already meeting with a young entertainer who could become Rhodes replacement. Rhodes arrives at his penthouse, where he was scheduled to address the nations business and political elite at a dinner party, but none of his guests show up, leaving Rhodes alone in an empty room with the butlers and servers. Rhodes calls the studio and Jeffries, with Miller holding the phone, listens to him rant as he threatens to jump to his death from the penthouse. Jeffries, who has been silent, grabs the phone and screams at Rhodes to jump, and to get out of her, and everybodys, life. Miller angrily dares Jeffries to face Rhodes and tell him the whole truth. They go to Rhodes penthouse and find Rhodes drunk and disconnected from reality. He shouts folksy platitudes and sings at the top of his lungs while his longtime flunky Beanie (Rod Brasfield) works an applause machine—Rhodes own invention—to replace the cheers, applause, and laughter of the audience that has abandoned him. When he vows revenge on the TV studios engineer, Jeffries admits it was she who betrayed him. She demands he never call her again, and Miller tells Rhodes that life as he knew it is over, and delivers to Rhodes his career coda: Rhodes is not really destroyed at all. Both the publics and the networks need for Rhodes, will, "after a reasonable cooling off period" of remorse and contrition, he predicts, return Rhodes to the public eye, but never to his previous height of power and success. Rhodes ends up screaming from the window of his penthouse for Marcia Jeffries to come back as she leaves in a taxi with Miller, who assures her that Rhodes wont kill himself.
A Face in the Crowd (film)
1957