After a long and boring day at work, Paul Hackett, a computer word processor, meets Marcy Franklin in a local cafe in New York City. They discuss their common interest in Henry Miller. Marcy leaves Paul her number and informs him that she lives with a sculptor named Kiki Bridges, who makes and sells plaster of Paris paperweights resembling cream cheese bagels. Later in the night, under the pretense of buying a paperweight, Paul visits Marcy, taking a cab to her apartment. On his way to visit Marcy, his $20 bill is blown out the window of the cab, leaving him with only some spare pocket change. The cab driver is furious that he cannot pay. This is the first in a long series of misadventures for Paul that turn hostile through no fault of his own. At the apartment, Paul meets the sculptor Kiki and Marcy, and comes across a collection of photographs and medications which imply that Marcy is severely disfigured from burns on her legs and torso. As a result of this implication, and as a result of a strained conversation with Marcy, Paul abruptly slips out of the apartment. Paul then attempts to go home by subway, but the fare has increased at the stroke of midnight, and he finds that his pocket change is no longer sufficient to purchase a token. He goes to a bar where Julie, a waitress, becomes enamored with him. At the bar, Paul learns that there have been a string of burglaries in the neighborhood. The bars owner, Tom Schorr, offers to give Paul money to cover the subway fare, but he cannot open the cash register. They exchange keys so that Paul can go to Toms place to fetch the cash register keys. Afterward, Paul spots two actual burglars, Neil (Cheech Marin) and Pepe (Tommy Chong), with one of Kikis sculptures. After he attempts to confront them, they flee, dropping the sculpture in the process. When Paul returns the sculpture to Kiki and Marcys apartment, he finds Marcy has committed suicide. Kiki and a stout man named Horst have already left to go to Club Berlin, a nightclub. Paul attempts to return to Toms bar, but it is locked with a sign indicating that Tom will be back in half an hour. Paul meets Julie, the waitress, in the street, who invites him up to her apartment to wait for Tom to reopen the bar. Paul goes back to Toms bar, finding Tom grieving over Marcy, who was his girlfriend. Paul returns to Julies apartment where she begins to sketch his portrait while they talk. Ultimately, Paul rejects Julies advances and leaves. He goes to Club Berlin to find Kiki and Horst, where a group of punks attempt to shave his head into a mohawk. Paul meets Gail who mistakes him for the burglar, and she and a mob of local residents relentlessly pursue him. Paul then witnesses a murder. He meets a man who he asks for help, and the man assumes that he’s looking for a gay hookup. Paul finds Tom again, but the mob (with the assistance of Julie, Gail, and Gails Mister Softee truck) chases Paul. Paul discovers that as payback for rejecting her, Julie used his image in a wanted poster which names him as the burglar. He ultimately seeks refuge back at the Club Berlin. Paul uses his last quarter to play "Is That All There Is?" by Peggy Lee and asks a woman named June to dance. Paul explains hes being pursued and June, also a sculptress, offers to help him. She protects him by pouring plaster on him in order to disguise him as a sculpture. However, she wont let him out of the plaster, which eventually hardens, trapping Paul in a position that resembles the character depicted in Edvard Munchs painting The Scream. The burglar duo then breaks into the Club Berlin and steals him, placing him in the back of their van. He falls from the burglars cargo right outside the gate to his office building as the sun is rising. Paul brushes himself off and goes to work, bringing the film full circle.
After Hours (film)
1985