With the outbreak of World War I, a young woman (Constance Bennett) is unable to purchase a train ticket from Luxembourg to Austria. However, Rudolph "Rudy" Ritter (Gilbert Roland) is attracted to her and gets her aboard a train to Bern, Switzerland. Later, when the train is stopped short of their destination, she slips away while he goes in search of a car. He does not even know her name. Rudy turns out to be a captain in the Austrian Ministry of War assigned to deal with Russian spies, particularly the very successful K-14. He gets a lead when a secret message is intercepted; it contains information about a newly improved flamethrower. Rudy is assigned to Major Lieber (Edward Ellis), the man in charge of the unit developing the weapon. Rudy is delighted when Lieber introduces him to nurse Karen Schöntag, his former traveling companion. Rudy sees Karen every night, and the pair fall in love. However, Karen is actually K-14. She narrowly escapes being caught by Rudy and his men, then is brought in for questioning when she goes to a certain staircase that Rudy knows is being used by the Russians to transfer messages. Rudy refuses to believe she is a spy and does not even search her. Major Lieber, however, notices something odd about one of the books she had with her; one page has been freshly torn out (the one with an invisible message). Faced with the mounting evidence, Rudy sets a trap. He has Russian-speaking Private Muller sent to K-14s hospital masquerading as a prisoner of war. Muller gives K-14 the Russian recognition signal (two circles) and passes her a message, ordering her to meet an agent at a deserted house at nine oclock that night. K-14 is suspicious, but feels she must go. Her contact insists on taking her there. After she incriminates herself to "Russian" agent Lehan (Mischa Auer), Rudy is forced to arrest her. Fortunately, K-14s associate shoots Rudy and knocks out Lehan. He has to drag K-14 away from the wounded Rudy, who also urges her to flee. After the war ends, the two meet by chance at a Swiss train station. This time, Rudy does not let her get away.
After Tonight
1933