Roman Melnyk, a construction worker, is allowed to leave work early, for the arrival of his wife and pregnant daughter, Olena and Nadiya, from New York City aboard AX 112. At the airport to welcome his family, Roman receives the news that AX 112, with his wife and daughter onboard, had been in an accident. From this point, Roman is devastated and blames the air traffic controller for the deaths of his family. Meanwhile, in another angle of the story, Jacob "Jake" Bonanos, an air traffic controller, is happily married to a woman named Christina with whom he has a young son named Samuel. Jake is now also devastated, after seeing AX 112 and the other flight, DH 616, disappear from the radar, showing that the two planes collided and were destroyed. Although the investigators cannot hold Jake responsible for the deaths of the passengers, he blames himself. However, as time passes, he slowly unravels, straining the relationship with his family, and is unwilling to talk about what happened. It is reported that all 271 passengers and crew were killed in the mid-air collision. Roman goes to the crash site and, posing as a normal volunteer, he recovers his daughters necklace and the bodies of his wife and daughter. At his home, Roman stays hidden inside, when Tessa Gorbett, a journalist, approaches, expressing interest in writing a book on the incident. She ends up leaving behind some prior articles of plane disasters she had written about (to show her credentials as a serious journalist) through the mail slot of the door. Because of the seriousness of the incident, the lawyer advises Jake to move to another state and adopt a new name for the safety of himself and of his family. Roman meets lawyers John and James Gullick to sign an agreement stating that the airport companies will pay for the expenses and damages to his family. Roman refuses to sign it as neither the company nor the lawyers express apologies for the loss of his family. One year later, Roman and the families of the crash victims attend an inauguration of the newly completed memorial at the crash site. Jake, having moved to another site, now works at a travel agency, under the name "Pat Dealbert" and lives alone. Roman has also moved on to another town and now works as a carpenter. Roman meets Tessa and asks her, as a favor, to find Jake. Tessa later reveals Jakes cover name and occupation but she initially refuses to give his address. Roman tracks down the building where Jake is working and follows him to his apartment. There, after waiting a day, on a day when Christina and Samuel happen to be visiting Jake for the weekend, Roman confronts him at his door. Jake refuses to offer an apology, so Roman stabs Jake in the neck. Jake falls to the floor and bleeds to death while Christina and Samuel sob uncontrollably. Roman is convicted of murder and serves a 10-year prison term, then is released on four months parole. He visits his familys grave where he meets a stranger. The stranger turns out to be a now-grown Samuel, who has tracked Roman down with the intention of killing him to avenge his fathers murder. However, Samuel cannot bring himself to kill Roman since its not what he was taught. Samuel accepts Romans apology and allows him to leave.
Aftermath (2017 film)
2017