Agnes Appleby (Wynne Gibson), waitress at Nicks Restaurant, gets into a mass fight and escapes with friend Red Branaham (William Gargan). The fight was about her honor. They live together, but the money isnt coming in, as it should. Red Branaham is caught by the police and put into jail. Her Landlady, Mrs. Spence (Jane Darwell), sets her on the street, as shes not able to pay back the rent, she owes her. So she goes to her friend Sybby Sib (ZaSu Pitts), cleaning lady in a boarding house or hotel. She puts her in a room of a man, whos not expected for some time, so that she can sleep some hours. The man, Adoniram Schlumpy Schlump (Charles Farrell) comes back home earlier, than what Sybby told him and finds Aggie in his bed. She pretends to be a socialite, from the family of the Applebys, but pitiful, she is broke. He is a gentlemen, very much in love with a lady, Evangeline (Betty Furness), whose letter hes expecting very urgently, beside, hes looking for a job, though he comes from an institution of a family, the Schlumps. Aggie calls him "an old goose", before she starts her program of remodeling. And helping him finding a job, in the construction site on the other side of the road, she pretends he is Red Branaham. While they are remodeling each other, the true Red Branaham comes out of jail. Schlump asks Aggie to marry him, but shes not sure whether she still loves Red, and she fears that their different social and cultural background could become a problem. Auntie (Blanche Friderici) and Evangeline pop up at his room, so that Aggie has to pretend to be a maid. Sybby tells her: No, you cant be in love with two men, at the same time, one is an indigestion! While Agnes sends away Schlumpy, because she is not the right social level for him, convinced that Evangeline is the right one, she finally convinces Red to marry her and become floor walker and change his name into Schlump, he accepting and saying "but my men hood is gone". The status quo of how society stratums are and have to be, is restored, because Aggie tells the men how it has to be.
Aggie Appleby, Maker of Men
1933