It is the last day of school before the summer break for Goofys teenage son Max, who has a plan to shed his "Goof" label and impress his crush, Roxanne. Max and his best friends, P.J. and Bobby Zimuruski, hijack the auditorium stage in the middle of Principal Mazurs speech, creating a small concert where Max performs, while costumed as the pop singer Powerline. The performance succeeds in making Max a school celebrity, but he, P.J., and Bobby are sent to Mazurs office. While waiting outside of the office, Roxanne speaks with Max and agrees to go with him to a party where Powerlines concert will be aired live. However, Mazur exaggerates these events to Goofy during a phone call with him and claims that Maxs actions may result in him facing capital punishment, therefore extremely rubbing in Goofys fear that Max is drifting away from him. Oblivious to Maxs plans with Roxanne, Goofy decides to take Max on a fishing trip to Lake Destiny, Idaho, following a map route he and his father took years ago, and the two go into his station wagon. Max stops by Roxannes house to call off their date, but when Roxanne says she will just have to go with someone else, Max panics and instead fabricates a story about his father knowing Powerline, telling her that he will appear on stage at the concert. Despite his sons objections, Goofy plans his own trip, with initially disastrous results, leading to Max hurting his fathers feelings after being humiliated at an opossum-based theme park. While camping, Pete and P.J. join them. Following Petes advice to keep Max under control, Goofy takes his son fishing and performs the Perfect Cast fishing technique, luring Bigfoot to their camp, forcing Pete and P.J. to flee, and leaving Goofy and Max to spend the night with Bigfoot. That night, while Goofy is asleep, Max surreptitiously alters the map route to Los Angeles, where the concert is taking place. The next morning, Goofy decides to make Max the navigator of the trip. The two go to several locations that satisfy both of them, and stop by a motel where they meet Pete and P.J. again. Pete overhears a conversation between Max and P.J., and reluctantly tells Goofy that Max is tricking him into traveling to Los Angeles. The next day, Goofy and Max come to a junction: one leading to Idaho, the other to California. After Max chooses the route to California, Goofy stops the car at the Grand Canyon and has a tantrum. With the brake loose, the car drives off on its own, leaving Goofy and Max to chase after it and ending up in the canyon. Goofy reveals his believing Mazurs exaggerations to Max, and also says that no matter how old Max gets, he will always be his son, and the two reconcile with each other. After learning that Max had promised Roxanne that he would be at the concert, Goofy decides to take him to Los Angeles. The two nearly plummet down a waterfall to their deaths, but Max fortunately saves Goofy, using the Perfect Cast technique. Goofy and Max get to Los Angeles, and while attempting to sneak backstage, they end up onstage and dance with Powerline, watched by Pete, P.J. and Roxanne on separate televisions. Goofy and Max later return to Roxannes house in their damaged car, where Max tells the truth to Roxanne; she accepts it and admits she always had feelings for him, ever since he first said, "Ahyuck!", starting a relationship between them. Goofys car suddenly explodes due to the damage it has sustained, ejecting Goofy in the process, but he safely falls through the porch roof of Roxannes house, where Max proceeds to introduce him to Roxanne.
A Goofy Movie
1995