In 1951, Walt Carver (Robert Arthur), Russ Coulter (Richard Long), Jerry Connell (James Best) and former U.S. Army Sgt. Joe Czanoczek (Alex Nicol) join a group of cadets beginning air force pilot training. Each of the cadets have their own reasons for being in the United States Air Force with Carver attempting to overcome his privileged background, Coulter wanting to emulate his brother who had died in World War II, Connell trading on his prior background as a civilian pilot, and Sgt. Czanoczek vying to make his wartime military experience count. Besides flying, the trainees have to contend with Upper Classmen who are intent on hazing the newcomers. After primary training at Randolph Field on AT-6 Texan aircraft, the group loses one of their group, with Connell "washing out" and opting to become a navigator. All the others successfully solo and await their next assignment. The rest of the group of trainees including Czanoczekas, who wanted to fly B-25 Mitchell medium bombers, move on to advanced training on jet aircraft at Williams Air Force Base. There cadet Coulter meets and falls in love with Janet Page (Gail Russell), the estranged wife of one of the instructors, Major Jack Page (Stephen McNally), the leader of a F-80 Shooting Star jet aerobatics team based at Williams AFB. His job is to identify and wash out unsuitable candidates and with the turmoil at home, Page hones in on Coulter. The rivalry between the two puts Coulters future as a fighter pilot in jeopardy. Janet realizes that Coulter has aggravated some of Pages former demons. He had been tormented by the guilt of sending men to their deaths in wartime. After being branded a coward by Page, Coulters brother had committed suicide, a secret that had been gnawing at the trainee. The pressure to solo erodes Coulters confidence, and after an accident on his solo flight, he has to confront Page during the accident investigation. Coulter is cleared and allowed to continue training but both rivals are pitted against each other in the air when Page takes over Coulters training. Page picks Coulter, Carver and Czanoczek as his wingmen in a new "Acrojets" flying team, but is sure that his rival will not be up to the task. In a check flight the commander and Coulter fly together in a two-seat trainer, to see whether the young cadet will remain on the team. When his oxygen supply fails, Page loses consciousness and it is up to Coulter to bring the two of them home safely in a risky desert landing. Finally able to deal with his guilt, Page realizes that Coulter is not to blame. Janet finally reconciles with her husband, who is asked by his former rival, to pin aviator wings on, signifying Coulters graduation as a fighter pilot.
Air Cadet (film)
1951