Alfie Elkins (Jude Law) is a Cockney limo driver and sex addict, who regularly beds beautiful women on one-night stands. In addition to these, he maintains a casual relationship with a single mother named Julie (Marisa Tomei) that he refers to as his "semi-regular-quasi-sort-of-girlfriend thing", and the unhappily married Dorie (Jane Krakowski). At the first inkling that Dorie wants something more than casual sex, he decides to stop contacting her. Alfie wants to go into business with his coworker and best friend, Marlon (Omar Epps), but Marlon is preoccupied with trying to win back his ex-girlfriend, Lonette (Nia Long). Marlon asks Alfie to put in a good word with Lonette. Alfie meets with her at a bar to persuade her to get back together with Marlon - after both becoming intoxicated, they end up having sex on a pool table. Alfie meets with Marlon the next day, terrified that he knows about their indiscretion, but is relieved when Marlon says he and Lonette got back together and surprised when Marlon informs him that he asked Lonette to marry him. Alfie goes to Julies place for another booty call, but she throws him out after confronting him about his affair with Dorie, which she learned about after finding her panties in her rubbish bin, which Alfie had discarded there earlier after discovering them in his pocket. Later attempting to reconcile by attending her sons birthday, bringing a teddy bear as a gift, Alfie discovers that his actions have led to Julie reconciling with her estranged husband. Alfie later discovers Lonette is pregnant with his child, and (without telling Marlon) they visit a clinic and arrange for her to have an abortion. Soon afterward, Marlon and Lonette unexpectedly move upstate, without even saying goodbye to Alfie. Following repeated failures to achieve an erection with various women, he visits a doctor who tells him he is perfectly healthy, and that his impotence is due to stress. However, the doctor also locates a lump on Alfies penis that may be cancerous. Alfie immediately has a test run at the clinic and spends a few anxious days awaiting the results. During one of his trips to the hospital, Alfie meets a widower named Joe (Dick Latessa) in the clinic bathroom. Joe imparts some life advice to the depressed Alfie: "Find somebody to love, and live every day like its your last". Soon afterward, Alfie finds out he doesnt have cancer. Believing hes been given a second chance, Alfie decides to "aim higher" in his love life. To that end, he picks up a beautiful but unstable young woman named Nikki (Sienna Miller), and they quickly embark on a passionate, turbulent relationship. They move in together, but Alfie finds it hard to put up with her mood swings, especially after she goes off her medication. He begins to distance himself from Nikki and sets his sights on an older woman, Liz (Susan Sarandon), a sultry cosmetics mogul, who had inspired him to "aim higher" in the first place. Alfie becomes infatuated with her, but she wants to keep their relationship strictly sexual. Alfie then ends his relationship with Nikki. Alfie runs into Julie in a coffee shop, and realizes that he has genuine feelings for her; to his dismay, however, shes now happy with another person. A trip upstate to visit Marlon and his now-wife, Lonette, who reveals that she never actually went through with the abortion. Alfie also learns that Marlon knows that Alfie is the childs father, but nonetheless decided to stay. Upon seeing Marlon with hurt in his eyes, Alfie leaves and calls Joe, who tells him that he needs to get his life together. Alfie turns to Liz for comfort but is crushed to discover that she has a new man in her life. Alfie demands to know what her new boyfriend has that he doesnt; Liz replies, "hes younger than you". Alfie has a chance meeting with Dorie late one night. He tries to get back into her life, but she says that she wants no part of him. He apologises to her for not calling her and admits that he has trouble expressing his feelings, running from relationships when they become too serious. Dorie wishes Alfie "good luck" with his life. The film ends with Alfie talking to the audience about genuinely changing his ways.
Alfie (2004 film)
2004