In Paterson, New Jersey in 1961, Catherine Spages (Linda Miller) is visiting Father Tom (Rudolph Willrich) with her two daughters, nine-year-old Karen (Brooke Shields) and twelve-year-old Alice (Paula Sheppard), who both attend St. Michaels Parish Girls School. Karen is preparing for her first communion, and Father Tom gives her his mothers crucifix as a gift. A jealous Alice puts on a translucent mask, frightening Father Toms housekeeper, Mrs. Tredoni (Mildred Clinton). Later, Alice steals Karens porcelain doll and lures her into an abandoned building. She scares Karen with a double mask and locks her in a room. When Alice lets her out, she threatens her that shell never see the doll again if she tells anyone what happened. On the day of her first communion, Karen is attacked and strangled in the church transept by a person wearing a translucent mask and a yellow raincoat. Her body is dragged away and dumped into a bench compartment, which is set on fire with a candle, but not before the crucifix is ripped from her neck. Smoke begins to fill the church. Meanwhile, Alice enters the church, carrying Karens veil. She kneels in place to receive communion when she hears a scream. A nun has entered the back room where the confessionals are located and discovers Karens dead body. People run in, horrified. Catherine is inconsolable. After Karens funeral, Catherines ex-husband Dominick (Niles McMaster) arrives to help track down the killer. Annie (Jane Lowry), Catherines sister, moves in to help Catherine through her grief, but it is clear that Alice and Annie despise each other. Catherine sends Alice to deliver a rent check to their landlord, Mr. Alphonso (Alphonso DeNoble). When he fondles and attempts to molest her, Alice grabs one of his cats, distracting him so she can escape. She then goes down to the basement, where she lights a candle and puts on her mask. Meanwhile, descending the stairs to go shopping, Annie is attacked by a rain-coated figure in a mask who stabs her several times. At the hospital, Annie cries to her husband Jim that Alice tried to kill her. Catherine says that Annie is only accusing Alice of Karens murder to divert attention from her own daughter Angela, who was absent at the time of the murder. Alice is sent to a mental institution for evaluation. At the hospital with Father Tom, Dominick receives a hysterical phone call from someone claiming to be Angela, saying that she has Karens crucifix and is in hiding. They agree to meet at an abandoned building. Outside, Dominick spots and then follows the rain-coated figure. He goes inside and up the stairs where the killer stabs him in the shoulder, and he is knocked out by a brick and tied up. Dominick regains consciousness and sees that the killer is in fact Mrs. Tredoni. She reveals that she stabbed Annie, whom she mistook for Catherine, whom she considers a whore. She calls Dominick and Catherine sinners because they had premarital sex. After Dominick bites the crucifix off her neck, Mrs. Tredoni beats him with a brick and pushes him out of the window. After a pathologist (Lillian Roth) analyzes Dominicks corpse, the crucifix is found, and Alice is released. After hearing of Dominicks death, Catherine tries to visit Father Tom. He is not at home, but Mrs. Tredoni invites Catherine in. Mrs. Tredoni tells Catherine that she murdered Karen because her own daughter died on the day of her first communion; she then realized children are punished for the sins of their parents and that Mrs. Tredoni since devoted her life to the church and specifically, Father Tom. Mrs. Tredoni seemingly threatens Catherine with a knife when Father Tom arrives and the pair leave to pick Alice up from the mental institution, as the police have eliminated her as a suspect since she was incarcerated when Dominick was killed. When Catherine and Alice go to church, Mrs. Tredoni sneaks into the apartment building. As Mrs. Tredoni bangs on Catherines apartment door, not realizing the pair are not in, Mr. Alphonso wakes up screaming, as Alice had put a jar of cockroaches on his belly before leaving. He spots Mrs. Tredoni and mistakes her for Alice. She stabs him twice and runs downstairs. However, Detective Spina witnesses her running out of the back entrance without the mask on. Mrs. Tredoni goes to church, where the police are stationed outside. Father Tom denies her communion. Mrs. Tredoni points at Catherine, screams that he gave communion to a whore, and violently stabs Father Tom as the police rush in. Father Tom dies in Mrs. Tredonis arms. Alice walks out of the church with Mrs. Tredonis shopping bag, placing the bloodstained butcher knife into it.
Alice, Sweet Alice
1976