In a prologue, business magnate Peter Weyland speaks with his newly activated android, who chooses the name "David" after observing Michelangelo’s statue of David. Weyland tells David that one day they will search for mankinds creator together. David comments on his own unlimited lifespan compared to his creators limited one, which unsettles Weyland. In 2104, 11 years after the Prometheus expedition, the colonization ship Covenant is bound for remote planet Origae-6, with two thousand colonists in stasis and 1,140 human embryos aboard. The ship is monitored by Walter, a newer android model that physically resembles David. A stellar burst damages the ship, killing 47 colonists. Walter orders the ships computer to wake the crew of 14, which includes several married couples. The ships captain, Jake Branson, dies when his stasis pod malfunctions. While repairing the ship, the crew picks up a radio transmission of a human voice from a nearby (two weeks’ travel) planet, which appears eminently more habitable than Origae-6 (still 7 years away). Despite the protests of Daniels, Branson’s widow, that this new "perfect" planet is too good to be true, newly-promoted captain Oram decides that they are going to divert and check the new planet. With pilot Tennessee maintaining Covenant in orbit, his wife Maggie flies a small lander to the Earth-like planets surface, where an expedition team tracks the transmissions signal to a crashed alien ship. Crew members Ledward and Hallett are infected by spores from a black fungus-like organism. Orams wife Karine helps the increasingly ill Ledward back to the lander where Maggie quarantines them inside the med-bay. A small, pale, alien neomorph bursts from Ledwards back, killing him, and then kills Karine. Maggie attempts to kill the creature with a shotgun, but triggers an explosion which kills her and destroys the lander. Nearby, another neomorph bursts from Halletts mouth, killing him as well. The neomorphs attack the remaining crew and kills Ankor. The crew manages to kill a neomorph before David, who survived the Prometheus mission, scares away the other, and leads the crew to a temple in a city full of dead humanoids. David tells them that upon his and fellow Prometheus survivor Elizabeth Shaws arrival at the planet, their ship released a black liquid bio-weapon which annihilated the native population and that Shaw died when the ship crashed in the ensuing chaos. The crew members attempt to contact the Covenant but are prevented by fierce storms. When a neomorph infiltrates the structure and kills Rosenthal, David tries to communicate with the creature, and is horrified when Oram kills it. Oram questions David, who reveals that the aliens are a result of his experimenting with the black liquid in an attempt to create a new species. He manipulates Oram into being attacked by a facehugger alien. An alien xenomorph later erupts from Orams chest, killing him. As the others search for Oram and Rosenthal, Walter finds Shaws dissected corpse, used by David as material for his evolving creature designs. David explains that he believes humans are a dying species and should not be allowed to colonize the galaxy. When Walter disagrees, David disables him, and threatens Daniels. Walter recovers (being a superior model capable of self-repair) and fights with David while Daniels escapes. A facehugger attacks security chief Lope, but he is later rescued by crew member Cole. The now fully grown Xenomorph kills Cole, while Lope escapes and meets up with Daniels. Tennessee arrives in another lander to extract Daniels, Lope, and Walter, who claims David has "expired". They successfully kill the attacking Xenomorph and return to the Covenant. The next morning, Daniels and Tennessee find out that another Xenomorph burst from Lopes chest, killing him, and is loose on the Covenant. It matures, and kills crew members Ricks and his wife Upworth. Remaining crew members Tennessee and Daniels lure the creature into the Covenants terraforming bay and flush it into space. The Covenant resumes its trip to Origae-6. As Walter helps Daniels into stasis, she realizes that he is in fact David, but is unable to escape her pod before falling asleep. David regurgitates two facehugger embryos and places them in cold storage alongside the human embryos. He then poses as Walter to record a log stating that all crewmembers except Daniels and Tennessee were killed by the neutrino blast at the beginning of the film and that the ship is still on course for Origae-6.
Alien: Covenant
2017