Following the events of the previous film, a Predator ship leaves Earth carrying Alien facehuggers, and the body of Scar, the Predator that defeated the Alien Queen. A chestburster with traits of both species erupts from Scars body. It quickly matures into an adult Predalien, makes its way onto a scout ship that is then detached from the Mothership, and starts killing the Predators on board. A Predators weapon punctures the hull and the scout ship crashes in the forest outside of Gunnison, Colorado, injuring or killing most of the Predators. The Predalien and several facehuggers escape, implanting embryos into a nearby father and son who are out hunting in the forest, as well as several homeless people that live in the sewers. An injured Predator sends a distress signal before being killed by the Predalien. In the Predator homeworld, a skilled veteran Predator, Wolf, receives the signal and takes it upon himself to travel to Earth to hunt and kill the Aliens. He arrives and destroys the crashed Predator ship and uses a blue acid-like liquid to dissolve and erase evidence of the Aliens presence. Meanwhile, ex-convict Dallas Howard has just returned to Gunnison after serving time in prison. He is greeted by Sheriff Eddie Morales and reunites with his younger brother Ricky. Ricky has a romantic interest in his classmate Jesse, but is constantly harassed by her boyfriend Dale and his two friends. Kelly OBrien has also just returned to Gunnison after serving in the military, and reunites with her husband Tim and daughter Molly. Darcy Benson, the wife of the murdered father, begins her search for her missing husband and son. Meanwhile, local waitress Carrie Adams discovers she is pregnant, but her police officer husband, Ray, is killed by Wolf after witnessing him dissolving the bodies of Darcys husband and son while he was searching for them in the forest. Wolf tracks several Xenomorph Aliens in the sewer and defeats many of them, and as the battle reaches the surface, several of them disperse into the town. Wolf pursues some to the power plant, where collateral damage from his plasma caster weapon causes a city wide power outage. Ricky and Jesse meet at the high school swimming pool, but are interrupted by Dale and his cohorts just as the power goes out and a Xenomorph enters the pool, killing Dales friends. Another Xenomorph invades the OBrien home, killing Tim while Kelly escapes with Molly. After the fry cook at the local diner where Carrie works is attacked by the Aliens, Carrie is also attacked after hearing the cooks screams and is impregnated by the Predalien with bellybusters and killed. Darcy discovers her body in horror but Sheriff Morales arrives and brings her with him. Kelly, Molly, Ricky, Jesse, Dale, Dallas, and Sheriff Morales gather at a sporting goods store to collect weapons. Troops from the Colorado Army National Guard arrive, but are quickly killed by the Aliens. Wolf briefly captures Dallas inside the store to use as bait to lure the Aliens, but Dallas escapes. Several Xenomorphs arrive and Wolf handily defeats them. Dale is killed by an Alien during the battle and one of Wolfs shoulder plasma casters is damaged. He removes his remaining one and modifies it into a hand-held blaster. As the survivors attempt to escape Gunnison, they make radio contact with Colonel Stevens and are told that an air evacuation is being staged at the center of town. Dallas and Kelly are skeptical, as going to the center of town would cause them to become surrounded by the Aliens, and they along with Ricky, Jesse, Molly and a few others, go for the helicopter at the hospital to get out of town while Sheriff Morales and Darcy head to the evacuation zone. However, the hospital has been invaded and overrun by the Aliens and the Predalien, who has impregnated some pregnant women to breed more Aliens. Wolf soon arrives at the hospital where he dispatches more Aliens and during the battle, Jesse is accidentally killed by one of Wolfs Shuriken weapons, Ricky is injured by the Predalien, and Dallas takes possession of Wolfs plasma blaster after the Predator is attacked by an Alien (while being distracted by Rickys gunfire after Jesses death) and both tumble down an elevator shaft. Dallas, Ricky, Kelly and Molly reach the roof and fight off several Aliens before escaping in the helicopter, while Wolf, having survived the fall, battles the Predalien on the roof in hand-to-hand combat. Wolf and the Predalien mortally wound each other just as a military jet arrives. Rather than a rescue airlift, it executes a tactical nuclear strike that levels the entire city. The shock wave causes the fleeing helicopter to crash in a clearing, where the survivors are rescued by the military. Wolfs plasma blaster is confiscated, and Colonel Stevens presents it to Ms. Yutani. Yutani tells him that the world is not yet ready for this kind of advanced technology.
Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem
2007