The commercial space tug Nostromo is on a return trip to Earth with a seven-member crew in stasis: Captain Dallas (Tom Skerritt), Executive Officer Kane (John Hurt), Warrant Officer Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), Navigator Lambert (Veronica Cartwright), Science Officer Ash (Ian Holm) and two Engineers, Parker (Yaphet Kotto) and Brett (Harry Dean Stanton). Detecting a transmission from the nearby planetoid LV-426, the ships computer, Mother, awakens the crew. Company policy requires crews to investigate such transmissions, so they land on the planetoid, sustaining damage from its atmosphere and rocky landscape. Parker and Brett repair the ship while Dallas, Kane and Lambert head out to investigate. They discover the signal comes from a derelict alien spacecraft and head inside it, losing communication with Ash. Inside, they find the remains of a large alien creature. Ripley deciphers part of the transmission, determining its not a distress signal, but a warning of some kind. In the spacecraft, Kane discovers a chamber containing hundreds of large egg-like objects. When he touches one, it opens and a creature springs out and attaches to his face through the facemask of his spacesuit. Dallas and Lambert carry the unconscious Kane back to the Nostromo. As acting senior officer, Ripley refuses to let them aboard, citing quarantine regulations, but Ash ignores Ripley and lets them in. The crew unsuccessfully attempt to remove the creature from Kanes face, discovering that its blood is an extremely corrosive acid. It later detaches on its own and is found dead. The ship is partly repaired, and the crew lifts off. Kane awakens with some memory loss but otherwise unharmed. During a final crew meal before returning to stasis, he chokes and convulses in pain, then dies as a small alien creature bursts from his chest and escapes into the ship. The crew attempts to locate it with a tracking device and capture or kill it with nets, electric prods and flamethrowers. Brett follows the crews cat, Jones, into an engine room and the now fully-grown alien (Bolaji Badejo) attacks him and disappears with his body into an air shaft. After heated discussion, the crew decide the creature must be in the air ducts. Dallas enters the ducts, intending to force the alien into the airlock, but it ambushes him. Lambert implores the others to abandon ship and escape in its small shuttle. Now in command, Ripley explains that the shuttle will not support four people and pushes to continue with Dallas plan of flushing out the alien. Now with access to Mother, Ripley discovers that Ash has been secretly ordered to return the alien to the company, with the crew deemed expendable. Ripley confronts Ash and he tries to choke her to death. Parker intervenes and clubs Ash, knocking off his head and revealing him to be an android. Parker reanimates Ashs head and they learn he was assigned to the Nostromo to ensure the creature was returned for analysis at any expense, including the crews lives. Ash taunts them about their chances against the "perfect organism." Ripley disconnects Ash and Parker burns his smashed remains with a flamethrower. Ripley, Lambert, and Parker agree to self-destruct the Nostromo and escape in the shuttle. Parker and Lambert are killed by the alien while gathering life-support supplies. Ripley initiates the self-destruct sequence and heads with the cat to the shuttle to find the alien in her path. She retreats and attempts unsuccessfully to abort the self-destruct. She returns to the shuttle, where the alien is gone, and she narrowly escapes in the shuttle as the Nostromo explodes. As she prepares for stasis, Ripley finds the alien has stowed-away aboard the shuttle. She puts on a spacesuit and opens the shuttles airlock. The explosive decompression forces the alien into the airlock doorway. She shoots it with a grappling hook to propel it into space, but the gun catches as the airlock closes, tethering the alien to the shuttle. It attempts to crawl into one of the engines but Ripley fires them to blast the alien into space. After recording the voyage final log entry, she places herself and the cat into stasis for the trip home to Earth.
Alien (film)
1986