Following the revelation of the truth about their city, Evelyn Johnson-Eaton becomes the leader of the city and forces all faction members to live equally with the factionless. Through confessing her role in the previous insurgency, Beatrice "Tris" Prior, Christina, and Cara are pardoned. Tris is informed by Tobias "Four" Eaton that the faction members have formed the "Allegiant", a rebel group wanting to restore the faction system. During a commotion between the factionless and the faction members, several people are killed, including Evelyns right-hand man, Edward. Tris is invited into a meeting with the Allegiant, whose leaders, Cara and Johanna Reyes, have formulated a plan to usurp Evelyn as well as sending envoys outside the city. Tris is selected for the expedition, alongside Tobias, Cara, Christina, Peter Hayes, Uriah Pedrad, and Tori Wu. Tris asks Tobias to free her brother, Caleb, upon hearing about his planned execution. During the journey, Tori is killed by the factionless, while the others manage to escape and meet with Zoe and Tobias mentor, Amar, long thought to be dead. The two take them to the Bureau of Genetic Welfare and meet with its leader, David. David explains that their city—Chicago—is walled off from the outside world as part of an experiment sanctioned by the US Government to produce more genetically pure (GP), or "Divergents", from the genetically-damaged (GD), which are the result of a failed experiment to correct human genes that led to the "Purity War". David gives Tris her mother, Natalies journal detailing her life before entering Chicago: she was a refugee from Milwaukee who joined the Bureau and later became a volunteer in order to stop the killings of the Divergents at the hands of Erudite and escort them safely; those rescued include Amar and Toris brother, George. Meanwhile, Tobias is disheartened when he learns that he is not in fact a true Divergent. Sympathetic to Tobias, GD Bureau staff, Nita, persuades him to join with her and the other GDs living in the fringes to join a rebellion against the GP staff. Tris is skeptical, albeit influenced by a jealousy of Nita, when Tobias tells her the plan. From a sympathetic GP staff informant, Matthew, Nita attempts to enter the Weapon Room, which involves setting a bomb that renders Uriah brain-damaged. Tris stops Nitas rampage by holding David hostage before wounding her, allowing her to be arrested. Tris is elevated to the position of council member, although Nitas information has made her realize that the Bureau is the one that supplied Erudite with the simulation serums that controlled Dauntless to invade Abnegation. Through the security cameras, it is revealed that Marcus Eaton, having been banished by Evelyn, is teaming up with Johanna to steal the factionless weapons, which will be countered by Evelyn releasing the death serum on everyone. Tris learns that David intends to release memory serums capable of erasing memories to the Chicago population to save his experiment. To counteract this, she formulates a plan to release the memory serum towards the Bureau members while Tobias, Christina, and Peter, with Amar and Georges help, head back to Chicago to give antiserums to Christina and Uriahs families. Tobias diverts halfway while carrying a memory serum, intending to inject it to his mother. However, when he instead offers her to avert the war in exchange for becoming his mother again, Evelyn agrees and goes outside to negotiate a peace settlement with Johanna and Marcus, requiring her to go into self-exile for two years while Marcus has to vow never to attempt to lead Chicago. Tobias instead gives the memory serum to Peter, who intends to start anew and stop being mean. Back at the Bureau, Caleb volunteers to expose the memory serum, a certain suicidal mission due to the death serum planted there. However, Tris replaces him at the last second. Though she is successful in repelling the death serum, David has been waiting for her inside and proceeds to shoot her as she works to expose the memory serum. As she lies dying, Tris sees visions of her mother embracing her before succumbing to her wounds and dies. Tobias, Christina, and Peter head back to the Bureau, only to hear from Cara about Tris death in an attempt to expose the serum. Tobias goes into a deep depression and is about to drink the memory serum to erase his memories with Tris, until Christina stops him. In the meantime, Uriahs family: his brother, Ezekiel "Zeke", and his mother, Hana, are called in to be with Uriah before his life support is unplugged. Two and a half years later, Chicago is opening and rebuilding itself, with people moving in and out, regardless of their gene purity. Tobias, having been working as an assistant council member under Johanna, welcomes Evelyn back from her self-exile. To celebrate Choosing Day, he, Christina, Caleb, Zeke, Shauna, Cara, and Matthew decide to ride a zipline from the Hancock Building, where Tobias scatters Tris ashes, having come to accept her sacrifice and death.
Allegiant (novel)
2016