The plot tells the story of a blind woman (portrayed by Blake Lively) and her husband (Jason Clarke). When her sight returns after a corneal implant, she begins to discover the previously unseen and disturbing details about themselves, their marriage and their lives. Gina and James have a happy marriage, despite Ginas dependence on James due to her disability. James appears to enjoy the dependence, saying that it makes him feel needed. As they try for a baby, Gina prepares for an eye transplant, which will restore the sight in one of her eyes. The surgery is a success, and Gina embraces her newfound independence. Immediately, her sex life with James suffers. To put the spark back in their marriage, James books them a holiday to Barcelona, promising Gina that he has reserved the same hotel room they had on their honeymoon. Upon their arrival, Gina claims the room is not the same, which James denies. Gina is later proven to be correct. After Barcelona, they attempt to have sex on a sleeper train. James, blindfolded, demands to know who Gina fantasises about when she masturbates, seemingly doubtful when she answers that she only thinks of him. James later rewatches a video of the encounter, obsessed with his helplessness and Ginas emotionless face. Still in Spain, Gina and James arrive at Ginas sisters house. One night, Gina visits a peep show with her sister and brother-in-law, but becomes agitated when someone gropes her on the street. James declines their invitation to join, and appears uncomfortable when Ginas brother-in-law jokingly suggests that Gina may find someone better-looking. Back home in Thailand, Gina begins to have trouble with her vision. As her eyesight worsens, it is heavily implied that James is diluting her eye drops with water, thus damaging the transplant. Confused and terrified by her returning blindness, Gina brings her eye drops to her doctor, who promises to test them for contamination. James learns that he is sterile, but does not tell Gina. While James purchases a new house at Ginas insistence, Gina engages in a flirtation with Daniel, an attractive man she has met at the public pool. When her dog overheats during a walk, Daniel offers to take them back to his home for water. There, he and Gina have sex. Gina later reveals to James that she is pregnant, unintentionally confirming her affair as she is unaware of Jamess infertility. James does not confront her. Similarly, when Gina learns from her doctor that her eye drops have been tampered with, she does not confront James. Their home is broken into and their dog is stolen. Some time later, a visibly pregnant Gina has apparently regressed into her former blind self. She and James move into their new house. At one point, James tests Ginas blindness, intentionally hiding from her in plain sight. He makes plans to meet her at a local school for a talent show in which she is performing. While he is gone, Gina receives an anonymous letter, written in crayon, that reveals James was the one who staged the home invasion and released their dog. The writer claims to have rescued the dog, but refuses to return it because "when I look into her eyes, she looks back at me, and that is what love is." James goes to their old apartment to collect the last of his and Ginas belongings. In the bathroom, he uncovers a stash of empty eye drop bottles. He realises that Gina discovered his deception and secretly continued to obtain eye drops from the doctor, meaning that she has been faking her blindness. Gina confirms this when she looks directly at him during the talent show. Distraught, James drives home in tears, impairing his vision and causing him to crash into an oncoming truck. Home alone, Gina gives birth. She looks into her babys eyes.
All I See Is You (film)
2017