Jack Burden, a Louisiana news reporter, takes a personal interest in Willie Stark, an idealistic small-town lawyer. Circumstances develop that result in Tiny Duffy, a local political leader, urging Willie Stark to run for governor. Jack Burden is familiar with politics. He was raised by his godfather Montague Irwin, who is a judge, and his former lover Anne Stanton is the daughter of a former governor. He therefore decides to take Tiny Duffys advice and join Starks campaign for governor. In time, Jack Burden and Sadie Burke, a political strategist, reveal to Willie Stark that he is part of an elaborate plan to split his partys vote and thus win the election for the opposing party. As a result, Stark begins to give speeches in a straightforward manner to appeal to the public, in defiance of the advice given to him by Tiny Duffy. He changes his strategy vigorously and proceeds to win the position of governor. Tiny Duffy, who formerly planned to manipulate him, now becomes his lieutenant governor. He also recruits Jack Burden to work for him as an adviser. Judge Montague Irwin disapproves of Starks appointment to the position of governor, seeing Stark as an opportunist. Willie Stark proves to be very persuasive as a governor. He intends to build a new public hospital and convinces Dr. Stanton, an idealist, to run it for him. He also begins having an affair with Anne Stanton, provoking Sadie Burkes jealousy and Jack Burdens disappointment. Judge Irwin begins criticizing Willie Stark publicly, and political controversies begin to unfold. Stark demands that Jack Burden seeks information on the judge to be used against him. Jack insists that there is no information that could be used, but eventually he discovers evidence of a bribe that Judge Irwin used to be appointed judge many years prior. Following this revelation, Judge Irwin commits suicide. Jack Burden discovers that Judge Irwin was his biological father after he has committed suicide, which causes a great amount of guilt for Jack. Willie Stark utilizes many methods of corruption to consolidate his power, including patronage and intimidation. Dr. Stanton, Anne Stantons brother, is told that the hospital is a front that enables Willie Stark to rob the state and frame Dr. Stanton. Anne Stanton and Jack Burden both assure Dr. Stanton that this is false. Dr. Stanton also becomes enraged when he learns of Starks affair with his sister. Dr. Stanton waits at the state capitol building and assassinates Stark. Dr. Stanton is immediately shot and killed by the governors bodyguard. Later it is revealed that Dr. Stanton was influenced by Sadie Burke and Tiny Duffy to murder Willie Stark. Tiny Duffys motivation to influence the murder was to become governor after Willie Starks death.
All the King's Men (2006 film)
2006