Dr. Dan Potter is the replacement for Dr. Harry Merton, a psychiatrist at Dr. Leo Bains psychiatric haven. Dr. Merton has taken a position at a psychiatric hospital in the nearby city of Philadelphia. Dan, his wife Nell, and daughter Lyla, have recently moved into a house in the area. Dans sister Toni arrives for a visit. Leo operates the haven through very lenient methods. The 3rd floor patients: paranoid former POW Frank Hawkes, pyromaniac preacher Byron "Preacher" Sutcliff, obese child molester Ronald Elster, and homicidal maniac Tom "Bleeder" Skaggs initially treat Dan with mixed hostility. Dan learns from staff worker Ray Curtis that the 3rd floor patients believe he has killed Dr. Merton. Later, the four men on the 3rd floor talk of killing Dr Potter. That evening, Dan, Nell, and Toni go to a punk rock club. Lyla and her babysitter, Bunky, remain home. A regional power blackout occurs. Frank realizes the security system keeping patients in check has failed. The four men begin to carry out their plan. Preacher and Robert kill Ray. The four escape in a doctors car. They drive to a store in the middle of a looting raid to pick up weapons and new clothes. Frank slashes an innocent bystander and runs away. The others take the murdered mans van and drive off. Dan arrives at the hospital to discuss the escaped patients and the people they killed, with Leo. The next morning, with the blackout still in effect, Preacher arrives at the Potter residence to deliver a telegram but Dan is at the hospital. Nell and Toni leave to participate in a demonstration at a nuclear power plant and are arrested. Lyla arrives home from school and nobody except Ronald is there, and he claims to be the replacement babysitter for Bunky. Nell calls Dan from jail to tell him she, and Toni, were arrested. Dan phones Bunky to have her go to the Potter residence to check in on and to stay with Lyla. Bunky arrives at the Potter residence and finds Lyla asleep. She invites her boyfriend Billy over to have sex. After hearing a noise, Billy is dragged and killed underneath the bed by Preacher, and Bunky is strangled by Ronald. Dan arrives home with Nell, Toni, and Tom Smith, a man who Nell and Toni met in jail, claiming he was arrested at the same demonstration they were at, and allowed them to take his turn on the phone to call Dan. When they see police all over the house, they are concerned for the familys safety. Lyla wakes up unharmed, but she tells them about Ronald. The police havent found out about the murdered Bunky and Billy nor do they find anyone else in the house. The police leave but Dan invites Detective Burnett to stay for dinner. Burnett investigates noises outside the home and is killed by Franks crossbow. Frank attacks the family. With the phone line out, the family barricades the windows from the crossbow bolts. Meanwhile, Leo is told by the telephone operator that the phone line to the Potter residence is out of order, causing him to drive over to the house where he is slashed and axed by Preacher. Dan recalls Curtis telling him that the four men want to kill him because they believe he killed Harry. Dan screams at the men outside, telling them that he did not murder Dr. Merton, but he gets no reply. Suddenly, Burnetts dead body is thrown through a window by Ronald, and the group stacks furniture against it as Frank shoots his crossbow through the broken window. Preacher sets a fire in the basement, prompting Dan to the basement where he injures Preacher and extinguishes the fire. Ronald attacks the group before getting killed by a meat cleaver. While Dan starts Leos car, Toms nose bleeds, revealing his identity as the fourth patient in the group, and he attempts to strangle Toni. Dan runs back inside and grabs Tom away from his sister. Nell stabs Tom, killing him. Suddenly, Preacher comes out of the basement and Dan struggles with him. Dan manages to stab Preacher and throws him back into the basement. As Dan, Nell, Lyla, and Toni gather together for comfort, Frank reappears standing in the kitchen doorway with his crossbow aimed right at them and cities "Its not just us crazy ones who kill". Dan pleads with Frank to spare his family. Suddenly, the electricity comes back on and Frank sees Harry being interviewed in a news report on television. Upset, Frank breaks the TV, leaves the house, and escapes into the night. Frank then walks through the town and enters the club. While Frank watches the punk rock band perform, a drugged out girl walks up to him, and he pulls out his pistol and points it at her neck. She looks at it and laughs, and so does Frank.
Alone in the Dark (1982 film)
1982