In Alberta, Canadas Jasper National Park, Kate begins Alpha school with her father (Winston) and grows up as a fully trained Alpha. On her first hunt, she crosses paths with two wolves from the Eastern pack who are lacking food in their own territory and nearly start a war. The two packs have had a bitter rivalry ever since Tony commanded the Eastern wolves to cross over into Western territory (against pack law) to get sufficient food. Winston and Tony meet up one night and arrange for Kate to marry Garth (Chris Carmack), Tonys son. Kate, having a sense of responsibility and duty, agrees for the good of the pack and meets Garth at the Moonlight Howl. Garth seems perfect, except that he has a terrible howl and is not very bright. Kate, taken aback, leaves and has a talk with Humphrey about Garth, when suddenly they are tranquilized by some park rangers and taken away to Sawtooth National Recreation Area in Idaho, where they meet golfer Marcel and his caddy Paddy. Humphrey and Kate learn that they were relocated to repopulate the species. This horrifies Kate, but intrigues Humphrey so that he can be with Kate, but after coming to an agreement, Marcel and Paddy help the wolves return home to Jasper Park. The two packs discover that Kate has gone missing. Tony warns Winston that on the next full moon if Kate doesnt return to marry Garth, war will be declared for their territory. Kates sister Lilly however has developed a crush on Garth and suggests that she show him around until Kate gets back. Kate and Humphreys ride home is cut short at a gas station, where Humphrey is mistaken for a rabid wolf after he eats a cream-filled cupcake, which a French bulldog had seen. Kate attacks a man with the gun, and they both flee into the forest. During their homeward journey, they cross a dangerous ravine with Humphrey saving Kate from a nasty fall. The next morning, Marcel and Paddy find the wolves and direct them to a train over a snowy mountain that will take them to Jasper. Climbing the mountain, Humphrey meets a grizzly bear cub whose never seen wolves, but a mishap gets the cub hurt angering a trio of adult grizzly bears. Kate comes to Humphreys rescue and after a rough slide down the mountain manage to board the passing train before the bears devour them. During this time, Lilly and Garth are bonding. At the midnight howl, Lilly compassionately teaches Garth how to howl effectively. At the same time, Humphrey and Kate begin to fall in love and howl together while on the train. By this time, the full moon has come and the both packs declare war against each other. As the train passes by Jasper, Kate and Humphreys exchange of feelings is cut short by the sight of the wolf pack war. Kate stops the fight by declaring she will marry Garth. The next day, a devastated Humphrey bids farewell with Kate, Marcel, and Paddy deciding to leave by himself and Kate also feels the same way. During the ceremony, Kate decides not to marry Garth, declaring her love for Humphrey and Garth declares his own romantic love for Lilly. An Alpha wolf marrying an Omega wolf goes against pack customs and a conflict ensues between the packs, but is cut short when a massive stampede of caribou comes. Winston and Tony get caught in the stampede but Kate and Humphrey rush in to save them. But Kate gets knocked unconscious by the caribou. Humphrey saves her life by throwing himself over her and protecting her body with his. After the stampede, Kate is believed to be dead, and Humphrey howls in sadness, causing all the other wolves to howl. But Kate wakes, making everyone, especially Humphrey, happy again. Later at the Moonlight Howl, all of the wolves celebrate the love of Kate to Humphrey, and Garth to Lilly, breaking the social classes and traditions. Humphrey and Kate sing a duet.
Alpha and Omega (film)
2010