Julian Kaye is a male escort in Los Angeles, whose job supports and requires an expensive taste in cars and clothes, and affords him a luxury Westwood apartment. He is blatantly materialistic, narcissistic and superficial. However, he takes pleasure in his work from being able to sexually satisfy women, especially older ones. Julians procuress, Anne, sends him on an assignment with a wealthy old widow, Mrs. Dobrun, who is visiting town. Afterwards, he goes to the hotel bar and meets Michelle Stratton, the senators unhappy wife, who becomes obsessed with him. Julians friend, Leon, sends him to Palm Springs on a "substitute" assignment to the house of Mr. Rheiman, a wealthy financier. Rheiman asks Julian to have violent sex with his wife Judy, while he watches them. The next day, Julian berates Leon for sending him to a "rough trick" and makes it clear he does not do kinky or gay assignments. Leon in turn warns Julian that the wealthy, older women he serves will turn on him and discard him without a second thought. As Julian begins to know about Michelle, he learns that Judy Rheiman has been murdered. Los Angeles Police Department Detective Sunday investigates Julian as a primary suspect. Though Julian was with another client, Lisa Williams, on the night of the murder, she protects her husbands reputation and does not give an alibi for Julian. As Julians relationship with Michelle deepens, evidence implicating him in the murder mounts. He realizes that he is being framed and grows increasingly desperate. His mounting anguish is visually represented by a degeneration in style; his clothes become rumpled, he goes unshaven, and drives a cheap rental car (after ruining his Mercedes to find Judys jewelry planted in it). He neglects to pick up an important client for Anne that he has been scheduled to escort, and she shuns him. Julian warns Michelle that he is in trouble and tells her to leave him alone. Julian concludes that Leon and Rheiman are the ones trying to frame him, and that one of Leons other gigolos was the murderer. Julian goes to confront Leon, telling him he knows everything, but he refuses to help him. He pleads with him to clear his name, but he remains implacable. Julian pushes Leon off from the apartment balcony to his death. With no one to help him, Julian ends up in prison, hopelessly awaiting trial for Rheimans murder. While Michelle reconciles with Julian, she sacrifices her reputation and marriage.
American Gigolo
1980