Twelve-year-old Connor OMalley must face his mothers terminal cancer, his strict grandmother, his estranged father, and his school bully, Harry. One night at 12:07 a.m., Connor is visited by the tree-like Monster, who tells Connor it has come to tell him three true stories, after which Connor must tell the Monster his own story: the truth behind his nightmare, which Connor refuses to do. First story An old king who has lost his entire family (his sons were killed in fierce battles and his wife committing suicide because of this) save a young grandson, remarries a beautiful young woman. He dies before the prince comes of age, and many believe the queen poisoned the king. Not wanting to hand the kingdom over to the prince in a year, she plots to marry the prince and remain queen. The prince runs away with a farm girl he loves. They stop and sleep under a yew tree (the Monster), but in the morning he finds the young woman murdered. The prince tells the villagers that the queen, a witch, must have done it, and they rally to overthrow her. Before the commoners can reach the queen, the Monster carries her away to a far-off land where she lives out the rest of her life in peace. Though she was indeed a witch, she did not kill the farm girl or the king, who actually died of old age. The prince had murdered the farm girl himself in order to inspire his people to back him into overthrowing the queen. After the queen was taken to safety by the Monster, the prince continued to rule the kingdom in the grandfathers place. Second story An apothecary follows old traditions and beliefs, using herbs and brews to cure ailments. His business becomes less popular as a local parson tells his congregation not to accept the apothecarys old ways and denying the apothecary use of an old Yew tree. When the parsons two daughters become sick, the parson asks the apothecary to save their lives after all other resources are exhausted. When the apothecary asks why he should help a man who has turned people away from his skills and denied him the yew tree, his best source of healing ingredients, the parson promises to give him the tree and deliver the parishioners to him as customers. Yet the apothecary says that he cannot help, and the girls die. The Monster awakens from the yew tree to destroy the parsons house and raze it to the ground as punishment. While the apothecary was a greedy man, he was a healer and would have saved lives, including the girls, if the parson had allowed him his way of life. The parson was a man of belief but was willing to discard his beliefs when they were in the way. The healing traditions followed by the apothecary require belief in order to work; without the parsons, the apothecary was unable to treat the two girls. Belief is half the cure. Third story A man was invisible because no one ever saw him. Tired of this, he summoned the Monster to ensure people would notice him. Though people now notice him, the man finds himself more alone than before. Fourth story Connor must confront his nightmare to tell the fourth story. His mother has been pulled to the edge of a cliff by a sudden collapse of the ground, and Connor must hold her hand to save her from falling. Eventually, his grip fails and his mother falls. The Monster forces Connor to confess the truth: Connor loosened his grip on purpose. While he could have held on longer, he let go in order to stop the pain of having to hold on. Through the Monster, Connor ultimately understands that although he does not want his mother to die, it is something he must accept, and he must not feel guilty for wanting it to be over so he does not have to feel pain anymore. After this, Connor returns, with the Monster by his side, to comfort his mother one last time, and she dies at 12:07. He returns home with his grandmother, with whom he has reached an understanding, and she gives Connor the room that used to be his mothers. In the room, he finds his mothers old art book, which depicts the stories that were told to him by the Monster, and a drawing of his mother as a child with the Monster.
A Monster Calls (film)
2016