Emily Blair (Loretta Young), born into a very wealthy family in Blairtown, becomes deaf after contracting meningitis. She has left home, trying in vain to find a cure for her deafness, but is now returning to Blairtown. Before leaving, she was engaged to Jeff Stoddard (Barry Sullivan), but put the wedding on hold because of her illness and the following hearing disability. On her return home, she shares a taxi with Dr. Merek Vance (Alan Ladd), who also grew up in Blairtown, but under less fortunate circumstances. He works as a physician in Pittsburgh. Mereks first impression of Emily is that she is a terrible snob, and he is surprised to learn that she can read lips. Emily is unaware that her former fiancé Jeff and her younger sister Janice (Susan Hayward) have fallen in love with each other. Jeff is reluctant to tell Emily about his new relationship, feeling sorry for her. Merek is unaware that he is summoned back to his hometown to help Dr. Weeks (Cecil Kellaway), Blairtowns only physician, in trying to cure Emilys deafness. Merek has a record of curing deaf patients in the past. When Merek learns the reason for his being summoned there, he is disappointed, but agrees to help as a favor to Dr. Weeks. At a dinner at the Blair residence that evening, Merek tells Emily what he really thinks of her, and it turns out his father used to work in one of the Blair factories, but was fired right before Christmas one year. Merek still remembers how Emily stared at him at the companys Christmas gathering. Emily is not keen on the idea of letting Merek use her as a "guinea pig", but since she has exhausted all her other alternatives, she eventually agrees to let him try to cure her. The treatment begins, and Merek tries to cure Emily not only of her deafness, but also of her snobbery. She gains the respect of some of the factory workers, the Gallos, when she helps the doctor treat their child, Tommy. Merek starts to change his view of Emily, and tells her not to marry Jeff, as she has planned. Upon their return to the Blair residence, Merek accidentally sees Jeff and Janice together, and understands that they are an item. He keeps the discovery to himself, and doesnt reveal anything to Emily. Some time later, Merek concludes that his treatment is not working, but he tells her that he has fallen in love with her, despite her snobbish manners. Emily doesnt believe he is sincere, and they stop the treatment altogether and Merek goes back to Pittsburgh. Since Jeff still hasnt told Emily about his love for Janice, Emily starts planning for their wedding again. She hears of a new treatment that Merek has successfully tested on rabbits, and asks him to return and try it on her too. Reluctantly, Merek agrees, but when Emily is given the serum, she falls into a coma. Devastated, Merek goes back to Pittsburgh. When Emily eventually wakes up from her coma, she discovers that she has gotten her hearing back. She overhears Jeff telling Janice that he loves her, but she also understands that she herself is in love with Merek. Emily then goes to Pittsburgh to confess her love for Merek, and they reconcile.
And Now Tomorrow
1944