A group of ten people, strangers to one another, have all travelled to a hotel located deep in the deserts of Iran. Upon arrival they discover that their host is mysteriously absent. At dinner, they notice a display of figurines; the Ten Little Indians, as represented in the doggerel in each of their suites. They are accused via a tape recording by the host, U.N. Owen ("unknown"), someone none of them has ever met, of having committed various crimes in the past which went unpunished by the law. One by one, the guests start to die; first Michel Raven whose drink was poisoned. During the night, the housekeeper/cook, Elsa Martino, makes a mad dash to escape, only to be strangled against a pillar; a method of Ancient Persian execution, as noted by Hugh Lombard. A search of the hotel is intimated by General Salve who splits everyone into pairs. Not long after everyone separates from each other, Salve is stabbed to death in the hotels catacombs. Their search reveals there is no one in the desert, except their seven selves, and that there is a killer in their midst who is one of them. The next morning, Elsas husband, the butler, attempts to escape into the desert, only to expire from heat and exhaustion; his survival kit having been sabotaged. Ilona reveals her tragic past to the others, exposing the cause of her husbands suicide. Later, she is found dead, bitten by a venomous snake. The lights soon short out, leaving the five remaining guests in the dark, where at dinner, they reveal the nature of the crimes they stand accused of. Before Vera can offer her explanation, she leaves the others to return to her room. She screams, and the others rush to her. In the confusion, Judge Cannon is found dead in his bedroom, shot in the head. Dr. Armstrong poses his suspicions of Vera, and has her locked in her room. Hugh comes to Vera during the night to give her his gun, and reveals that he is in fact Charles Morley; the real Lombard had committed suicide and he took his place instead. In return, Vera herself confesses that she never committed murder and instead was secretly covering up for her mentally ill sister. In the morning, Dr. Armstrong is nowhere to be found. A search of the ruins leads to Blore being pushed to his death off a ledge. Vera and Morley find the body of Dr. Armstrong in the ruins and realise they are the only two remaining. Vera shoots at Morley and returns to the hotel where she finds all the furniture sheeted up once more, except for a chair with a noose above. She finds Judge Cannon alive, who reveals how he tricked Dr. Armstrong into helping him fake his "murder", and how he wanted to seek perfect justice and perform his duty as an executioner of the guilty. He tries to convince Vera to hang herself to avoid being publicly executed as the last remaining person alive, the most likely to be the murderer. He drinks poison, and prepares to die, right before Morley appears before him alive. Cannon chokes on the poison and realises his scheme has been foiled before he expires. With Cannon dead, Vera and Morley are picked up by a helicopter as the tape recording is replayed.
And Then There Were None (1974 film)
1974