A week from the end of high school, Andy (Mickey Rooney) is keenly anticipating his graduation, but is putting more effort into running the various student committees - most of which he chairs - than studying for his examinations. His father, honorable judge Hardy (Lewis Stone) learns that Andy has been giving money for tuition to a fellow student, a girl named Kathryn Land (Kathryn Grayson). Judge Hardy also learns that Kathryns father is poor. On his fathers advice, Andy attempts to offload some of his own study work, and asks Kathryn Land to be his private secretary, much to the chagrin of his steady girlfriend Polly Benedict (Ann Rutherford). Polly gets quite jealous of Kathryn when she discovers that Andys bought stockings for Kathryn to wear at graduation. Kathryns brother Harry (Todd Karns) takes on the task of designing decorations for the graduation ceremony. The father, a down-on-his-luck international travel expert, is helped by Judge Hardys (Lewis Stone) connections in the US State Department to find a better job. While Andy is struggling with his English exams, Kathryns brother Harry proves to be quite the scholar, showing no problems at all with his exams. Andy is devastated when he miserably fails his English examination, which means he cannot graduate. He admits his failure to the class and resigns from all committee work. Kathryn and Harrys father is offered a job in South America, which would mean money, but also that the family would have to leave before graduation was completed for the siblings. Andy wants them both to graduate, and "helps" them out by editing the telegram to the father about the date for traveling to the south, letting them stay a few days longer. Andys attempt to help his friends attend commencement results in another disaster — the fathers job offer is rescinded. But his friends persuade the school principal that the school rules allow him to retake the exam, given his high quality work during the past year. He passes - but only just. All ends well, of course. Andy graduates and is given a new car by his father; Kathryn sings at the ceremony, Harry wins the Governors Prize and is offered a job, and their impoverished father Steven Land (Ian Hunter) gets a job as a court interpreter.
Andy Hardy's Private Secretary
1941