Fifteen-year-old honor student Molly Stewart (Donna Wilkes) attends private prep school in the Los Angeles area in the daytime, but transforms herself to "Angel" at night: a leather mini-skirted, high-heeled street prostitute who works Hollywood Boulevard. Angel has a "street family" made up of aging movie cowboy Kit Carson (Rory Calhoun), street performer Yoyo Charlie (Steven M. Porter), transvestite Mae (Dick Shawn), fellow hookers Crystal (Donna McDaniel) and Lana (Graem McGavin), and her landlord, eccentric painter Solly Mosler (Susan Tyrrell). The streets dangers increase as a psycho-necrophiliac serial killer (John Diehl) begins to stalk and murder the prostitutes. Los Angeles Police Lt. Andrews (Cliff Gorman) is assigned to the case, but finds no leads. Tragedy strikes Angels group of friends when Crystal becomes a victim. The next day at school, Molly is confronted by teacher Patricia Allen (Elaine Giftos), who is concerned about Mollys lack of extra-curricular activities. Molly explains that her mother was paralyzed by a stroke and she has to head home immediately after school each day to care for her. Lt. Andrews advises the hookers to work in pairs. Angel teams up with her partner, Lana. Lana takes a potential client to a motel room she and Angel share. When Angel shows up at the room with a client of her own a couple of hours later she finds Lanas body in the shower. Angel gives the police a description of the suspect and a composite sketch is made. The killer is brought in for a lineup and Angel recognizes him, but he shoots his way out of the police station and escapes. Andrews takes Molly/Angel home to speak with her parents, but discovers that Mollys father left nine years ago and her mother abandoned her three years ago. Molly maintains the pretense of a mother at home so she wont be sent to a foster home. She believes her father will return someday. Shes paid her rent, school tuition and living expenses through prostitution since she was twelve. Despite Andrewss warnings to stay off the street, Angel/Molly purchases a pistol and returns to work. Her masquerade falls apart that night when some classmates recognize her on the street. Word flashes through the students at her school and soon everyone knows that Molly spends her evenings as a Hollywood hooker. The next day, Ms. Allen visits Mollys apartment and insists on meeting her mother. Mae pretends to be Mollys mother, but Allen isnt fooled. Mae is still at the apartment when the killer shows up later and stabs her to death. Solly discovers Maes body. Andrews and Molly return to her apartment and find Maes body. Molly heads out on the streets with Sollys huge, long-barreled magnum to avenge Mae, and Andrews goes after her. After a fight and chase, Carson, whom Andrews enlisted to help, shoots the killer. Molly, Andrews, and a wounded Carson walk off together and the film fades to black.
Angel (1984 film)
1985