The Westfield Angels high school football team have not won a game in years. Jesse Harper (Matthew Lawrence) is their best player and is playing as tailback, shedding a new light for the team. After a terrible accident in a rainstorm in which his father, Peter Harper (Jack Coleman), dies, he feels lonely and quits the team. Peter was actually a football star in his high school days. On the night that Jesse quits, Kevin (David Gallagher), his younger brother, confronts him and tells him that football was a major part of his life. He tells him that he belongs in the team. He responds by saying that the only way he would get back into it is if it starts winning. Kevin prays to the angels to come and help the team to win some games, so that Jesse would start playing again. The next day, they come. They are headed by Al (Christopher Lloyd), the only returning character from Angels in the Outfield. Kevin is the only one who can see them, though. Game after game after game, Westfield keep winning with the angels help. Kevin becomes a "lucky charm" for his brothers football team, since he can tell Coach Buck (Paul Dooley) what the angels need. At the same time somewhere else, Jesse begins to associate with some really bad people. At one point in the film, he distracts a window washer at the gas station as his "shady" friends rob the cash registers. After Jesse pays him, he leaves his wallet behind. The station attendant picks it up and has the police visit the Harpers home. The championship game is the following day, and Coach Buck asks Jesse if he could possibly come back to the team and play. He accepts, since now he has confidence that they can win. The climax of this film comes on the day of the championship game, coincidentally between the Westfield Angels and the Screaming Demons. However, Kevin is facing a slight predicament, because there is a sort of "heavenly law" that angels cant help in championship games. In the end, he motivates the team by spontaneously flapping his arms like an angel. Soon, the entire football field is filled with people doing the same thing. Jesse starts to run for a 60-yard touchdown remembering the words of his father. As Jesse scores the touchdown, he sees the spirit of his father. Jesse hugs his father and transcends to the team cheering and lifting up Jesse and Kevin.
Angels in the Endzone
1997