In 1955, Harry Angel, a New York City private investigator, is hired by Louis Cyphre to track down Jonathan Liebling, a crooner known professionally as "Johnny Favorite", whom Cyphre had helped become successful. Cyphre stands to benefit from unspecified collateral on Johnnys death and suspects that a private upstate hospital, where the war invalid Favorite was receiving psychiatric treatment for shell shock, is issuing false reports. Harry goes to the hospital and discovers that a backdated transfer record has recently been added by a drug addicted physician named Albert Fowler. After Harry breaks into his home, Albert admits that 12 years ago he was bribed by a man and woman to allow Johnny to leave while maintaining the fiction that he was still a patient at the hospital. Believing that Albert is still withholding information, Harry locks him in his bedroom without access to his drugs to pressure the doctor info revealing more. Hours later, he finds the doctor murdered. Unnerved, Harry tells Cyphre that he no longer wants the job, but agrees to continue after Cyphre offers him $5,000. He soon discovers that Johnny had a wealthy fiancée named Margaret Krusemark. He also begun a secret love affair with a woman named Evangeline Proudfoot. Angel travels to New Orleans and meets with Margaret, who divulges little information, telling him that Favorite is dead. Harry then discovers that Evangeline is also dead, but is survived by her 17-year-old daughter, Epiphany Proudfoot, who was conceived during her mothers love affair with Johnny. When Epiphany is reluctant to speak, Harry tracks down Toots Sweet, a blues guitarist and former bandmate of Johnny. After Harry uses force to try to extract details of Johnnys last-known whereabouts, Toots refers him back to Margaret. The following morning, police detectives inform Harry that Toots has been murdered. Harry returns to Margarets home, where he finds her murdered, her heart removed with a ceremonial knife. Harry is later attacked by enforcers of Ethan Krusemark—a powerful Louisiana patriarch and Margarets father—who tell him to leave town. Harry returns to his hotel and finds Epiphany on his doorstep. He invites her into his room, where they have aggressive sexual intercourse, during which Harry has visions of blood dripping from the ceiling and splashing around the room. He later confronts Krusemark in a gumbo hut, where the latter reveals that he and Margaret were the ones who helped Johnny leave the hospital. He also explains that Johnny was actually a powerful magician who sold his soul to Satan in exchange for stardom, but then sought to renege on the bargain. In 1943, Johnny kidnapped a young soldier and performed a Satanic ritual on the boy, murdering him and eating his still-beating heart in order to assume his identity and hide from the Devil. Johnny was supposed to drop out and resurface as the soldier he murdered, but was unexpectedly drafted into the war, injured, then sent home with amnesia. Hoping to jar his memory, the Krusemarks took Johnny from the hospital and released him into Times Square, never to be seen again. Harry has a panic attack and runs into the bathroom. He returns to find Krusemark drowned in a cauldron of boiling gumbo. Harry goes to Margarets home, where he finds a vase containing a clue to Johnnys true identity: a set of dog tags with Harrys name stamped on them. Harry is in fact Johnny. Cyphre then appears, and Angel deduces that "Louis Cyphre" is a homophone for Lucifer. Cyphre confirms that he is the Devil and proclaims that he can at long last claim what is his: Johnnys immortal soul. In a fugue state that Cyphre induces, it is revealed that Harry/Johnny has murdered Albert, Toots, the Margaret, and Epiphany. A frantic Harry/Johnny returns to his hotel room, where the police have found Epiphany raped, brutally murdered and wearing Angels dog tags. When Harry/Johnny reveals that Epiphany was his daughter, a detective tells him that he will "burn" for what he has done to her, to which Angel/Favorite replies, "I know. In Hell.". Harry/Johnny is seen standing inside an iron Otis elevator which is descending. It soon stops, with an immobile Harry/Johnny inside. As the screen fades to black, Cyphre can be heard whispering, "Harry" and "Johnny", announcing his dominion over both their shared souls.
Angel Heart
1987