Young foster child Roger (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) and his friend J.P. (Milton Davis, Jr.) love to sneak into baseball games of the hopelessly dreadful California Angels. Still in limited contact with his widower father, Roger asks when they will be a family again. His father replies sarcastically, "Id say when the Angels win the pennant." Taking his fathers words literally, Roger prays for God to help the Angels win. After he prays, a star, unseen by Roger, twinkles in the sky. Then, in a game against the Toronto Blue Jays which Roger and J.P. attend, he sees a group of angels led by Al (Christopher Lloyd) helping the team. Although Roger can see them quite clearly, everyone else can only explain the seemingly impossible acts as freak occurrences. Rogers unique ability to see which players are receiving help from angels leads their skeptical manager, George Knox (Danny Glover) to keep him around as a good luck charm and consultant, including ending the use of profanity as a nod to the original film. Due to the much needed help, the Angels start to win games and make a surprising second-half surge to the top of their division. Meanwhile, Rogers father permanently gives up custody of his son, believing its in Rogers best interest. As Roger laments his loss, J.P. accidentally reveals to antagonistic sports broadcaster Ranch Wilder (Jay O. Sanders) that Roger has the ability to see angels, and that George has been winning through the advice Rogers given him. Hoping to destroy George due to a longtime rivalry between the two, Ranch informs the press of this and their owner Hank Murphy (Ben Johnson) threatens to relieve George of his management responsibilities. Roger comes clean to his caretaker Maggie Nelson (Brenda Fricker) about his special ability and at a press conference they and the entire team defend George in front of the press. Moved by their faith, Murphy allows George to remain as manager of the Angels. During the championship game none of the angels show up to help the team. Later on, Al explains that championships must be played without help from the angels and that he was there just checking on pitcher Mel Clark (Tony Danza) who will be one of them soon as he has been a chain smoker. Mel starts struggling, and is getting tired after throwing 159 pitches. When George goes out to the mound, everyone thinks hes going in to take Mel out, but instead, George gives him some motivation, and with encouragement from Roger, the team, and finally, the entire stadium audience as well as owner Murphy and the broadcasters (with the exception of Ranch). The Angels ultimately win the final game of the regular season without the help of the angels and clinch the division pennant over the rival Chicago White Sox, thanks to Mel. Murphy fires Ranch due to his denigration of the team. The film ends with George adopting both Roger and J.P. as he wants to try be a father. J.P. sees Al at the window and says "I knew it could happen." Al circles around the house and says "Were always watching" and flying off into the stars, which re-enact a baseball game.
Angels in the Outfield (1994 film)
1994