With baseballs Pittsburgh Pirates in last place, their combative, foul-mouthed manager Guffy McGovern has plenty to complain about. All this changes when, while wandering through Forbes Field in search of his good luck charm one night, Guffy is accosted by the voice of an angel (voice of James Whitmore), who hints at having been a ballplayer during his earthly life. As the spokes-angel for the Heavenly Choir Nine, a celestial team of deceased ballplayers, he begins bestowing "miracles" upon the Pirates—but only on the condition that McGovern put a moratorium on swearing and fighting. With the help of the invisible ghosts of past baseball greats, the Pirates make it into the pennant race. During a game, 8-year-old orphan Bridget White insists that she can see the angels helping out the "live" ballplayers—understandably so, since it was Bridgets prayers to the Archangel Gabriel that prompted the angel to visit McGovern in the first place. Local newspaper reporter and former "household hints" writer Jennifer Paige inadvertently transforms Bridgets angelic visions into a nationwide news story, causing McGovern no end of trouble. After Guffy is beaned during a game and himself confirms Bridgets claims, he falls into the hands of vengeful sportscaster Fred Bayles, who has been scheming to have McGovern thrown out of baseball and persuades the Commissioner of Baseball to investigate McGoverns fitness as a manager. Complication piles upon complication until the pennant-deciding game, wherein Guffy is forced to rely exclusively upon the talents of his ballplayers—notably "over the hill" pitcher Saul Hellman (who, the angel has told Guffy, will be "signed up" by the Heavenly Choir team shortly). Guffy also wins over Jennifer, and they plan to adopt young Bridget. The angels themselves are never actually seen by the viewing audience, just the effects of their presence—a feather dropping, or someone being jostled from time to time. The angel who talks to Guffy never reveals who he was in life. However this angel does reveal his presence to Bayles when Bayles sarcastically asks to "the little angels up there" if they are happy with the Pirates win over the Yankees when Bayles hears the angel reply "Oh why dont you just shut up?" and pulls Bayles hat down over Bayles face. Bayles looks up incredously upon hearing the voice, searching for the voices speaker. It being a time when profanity was never used in films, the "swearing" uttered by Guffy is audio gibberish, scrambled recordings of his own voice.
Angels in the Outfield (1951 film)
1951