On Bird Island, an island inhabited by happy flightless birds, the reclusive Red is sentenced to an anger management class after his temper causes a "premature hatching" of a customers egg. Resentful, Red avoids getting to know his classmates Chuck, Bomb, and Terence, as well as the classs instructor Matilda. One day, a boat docks at the islands shore containing green-colored pigs, and their captain Leonard, who claim to be peaceful explorers bringing offerings of friendship. The pigs are accepted on the island and introduce the birds to innovative technologies such as slingshots and helium balloons. More pigs arrive and seemingly adjust to the birds society, but Red soon becomes suspicious of their motives, as they slowly overwhelm the island. He recruits Chuck and Bomb to help him find Mighty Eagle, a giant bald eagle said to be the protector of the island, and the only bird that can fly, but who has not been seen for many years. They find Mighty Eagle on top of Bird Mountain, but he is now overweight, self-absorbed, and largely in retirement. Looking through the Mighty Eagles binoculars, Reds group sees the pigs planting explosives around the island while the birds, probably unaware the other three are gone, are at a rave party. They realize the party was actually a cover for their plan to steal the birds eggs. Red, Bomb, and Chuck attempt to warn the other birds and stop the pigs, but they arrive too late as the pigs escape with the eggs and their explosives destroy the village. When the birds realize what happened, they apologize to Red for not believing him, and the forgiving Red rallies them to let their anger loose and retrieve their eggs. The birds construct a boat and sail to Piggy Island, where they find the pigs living in a walled city and Leonard, who is actually revealed to be King Mudbeard, the king of Piggy Island. Deducing the eggs are most likely in the castle at the center of the city, the birds attack and defeat the pigs by firing themselves over the walls using their gifted giant slingshot. However, when Terence attempts to launch himself into the city, he accidentally snaps the slingshot in half after pulling himself too far back. Meanwhile, Red, Chuck, and Bomb make it to the castle and find the eggs in a boiler room, where the pigs plan to cook and eat them. Mighty Eagle arrives, having watched these events through his binoculars and had a change of heart, and carries the eggs out of the castle. While the birds escape, one egg falls out and rolls back into the castle. While battling Leonard, Red learns to control his anger and distracts him long enough to retrieve the egg; the pot the pigs planned on boiling the eggs in collapses and shields Red as the pigs reserve of explosives blows up and destroy Piggy Island. Red reunites with the other birds as the rescued egg hatches, revealing three little blue birds, and is declared a hero. He, Chuck, and Bomb are approached by Mighty Eagle, who claims that his laziness was only a ruse so the birds could find faith in themselves. Returning to Bird Island, the birds rebuild Reds house, which was destroyed by the pigs, and moved it to the middle of their village. All of the birds that have hatched sing a song to Red to thank him and enshrine him as a legendary hero, and Red lets Chuck and Bomb move in with him. During the end credits, the pigs are revealed to survive Piggy Islands destruction, as King Mudbeard begins to make a new plan to steal the eggs, but soon does the break dance. In a mid-credits scene, the three blue birds use the rebuilt slingshot to launch themselves out to sea.
Angry Birds (film)
2016