The movie begins with Jake Huard (Franco) waking up after being knocked down during a boxing match. After returning to his feet and beating his opponent, he returns to the home he shares with his distant father (Brian Goodman), who is also his employer at a naval shipyard, building vessels for the Navy. It is revealed that his mother died an unspecified time ago, and his father doubts Jakes ability to amount to anything. The next day, Huard is visited by Lieutenant Commander Burton (Wahlberg), who reveals that Jakes application to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland has been recently accepted. At a bar where Huard and his friends are celebrating his acceptance, his friends introduce him to a young woman named Ali (Brewster), whom they claim is a prostitute hired as a going-away present. Huards attempts to seduce Ali are unsuccessful, and his farewell with his father leaves him frustrated. On his first day at the Academy, Huard discovers that one of his instructors is Ali, a Midshipman 2nd Class (an upperclassman) is the same woman that his friends introduced him to. She and her fellow instructor, Whitaker, begin hazing Huards class of plebes, and it is revealed that Huard in particular is behind academically. Their company commander, Midshipman Lieutenant Cole (Gibson), is revealed to have been an enlisted Marine prior to joining the Academy, and he announces his intent to run out any midshipman he deems unfit to be an officer. Huards roommates include Nance (Shannon) (nicknamed Twins because he is too overweight to complete the obstacle course), Loo (Fan), and Estrada (Calderon), who is being singled out by Whitaker because of his ethnicity. Eventually, Estrada is kicked out for committing an honor offense. Ordered by Whitaker to take multiple showers per day, Estrada one day fails to complete his task but nevertheless reports to Whitaker that the orders were fully executed. Loo informs Cole of Estradas dishonor, and Estrada is processed out of the Naval Academy. Meanwhile, Huards class becomes increasingly frustrated from suffering due to his failures, as evidenced by Loo moving out of the room. Nance explains his refusal to leave by noting that the instructors are so focused on Huard that they are leaving him alone. While home on winter leave, Huard intends not to return until he discovers that his father made a wager, expecting Huard to fail. Upon his return, the class begins instruction in boxing, and it is announced that a midshipman tournament, the Brigades, will occur at the end of the year. After Huard angers the boxing instructor with some unsportsmanlike conduct toward Cole in the ring, he is forced to train by himself. After an after-hours match with Burton, Huard swallows his pride and admits he needs help training, enlisting Ali and Burton for physical training, and Nance to gain enough weight to be in Coles weight class. In his match with Loo, he endures some taunting and returns with a single-punch knockout, earning him Loos respect and support, along with the rest of his class when he also proves capable of performing academically. He progresses through the tournament and defeats Whitaker in the semifinals, leaving Huard and Cole for the final match. After Nance fails by just four seconds to successfully complete the obstacle course within five minutes, Cole informs Nance that he will be separated (i.e., kicked out) from the Academy. Nance attempts suicide, which prompts Huard to tackle Cole in anger. Expecting to be kicked out as well, Huard begins to pack up and leave, until Cole approaches him and informs him that he has requested more time from the disciplinary board in order to delay the hearing until after the final Brigades match. After some encouragement from the recovering Nance, Huard steps into the ring to fight Cole, lasting a full three rounds. Although Cole wins by decision, Huards boxing ability earns him the respect of the entire Academy, as well as his father, who has come to see the fight despite being behind schedule on the current ship he is building. At his subsequent hearing, the disciplinary board decides to retain Huard, based on Coles recommendation. The Class of 2008 celebrates the end of their Plebe year, while Huard and Ali finally express their mutual attraction openly. Huard approaches newly-commissioned Second Lieutenant Cole to ask who would have won if the fight had continued, to which Cole challenges Huard to join the Marines to find out.
Annapolis (film)
2006