Anna Karenina is a young and elegant wife of Alexei Karenin, a wealthy nobleman twenty years her senior. She is unhappy and lives only for their son, Seriozha. During a ball in Moscow, she encounters the handsome Count Alexei Vronsky. Vronsky is instantly smitten and follows her to St. Petersburg, pursuing her shamelessly. Eventually, Anna surrenders to her feelings for him and becomes his mistress. Though they are happy together, their relationship soon crumbles after she miscarries his child. Karenin is deeply touched by her pain and agrees to forgive her. However, Anna remains unhappy and, to the scandal of respectable society, she openly leaves her husband for Vronsky. Using her brother as an intermediary, Anna hopelessly begs her husband for a divorce. Karenin, under the poisonous influence of her friend the Countess Lydia Ivanovna, indignantly refuses to divorce and denies Anna any access to Seriozha. Distraught by the loss of her son, Anna grows severely depressed and self-medicates with laudanum. Before long, she is hopelessly addicted. With Vronsky she has another child, but he is also torn between his love to Anna and the temptation of a respectable marriage in the eyes of society. Anna becomes certain that Vronsky is about to leave her and marry a younger woman. She travels to the railway station and commits suicide by jumping in front of a train. Vronsky is emotionally devastated by her death and volunteers for a suicide mission in the Balkan war. While travelling to join his regiment, he encounters Konstantin Levin at the train station. Levin has married Vronskys former (and unrequited) sweetheart, Princess "Kitty" Shcherbatsky. Levin attempts to persuade Vronsky of the value of life. Vronsky, however, is now despondent, and can only speak of how Annas body looked at the railway station when he arrived to see her. They separate, and Levin is left sure that he will never see again Vronsky, while the train departs. Levin returns to his family. At home, he writes the events of everything that happened, and signs his manuscript: "Leo Tolstoy".
Anna Karenina (1997 film)
1997