When the Lucasta family in Pennsylvania receives a message that a friends son Rudolf is coming to town to find a wife, they see a chance to make some money. The friend of the family, Mr. Strobel, will send $4,000 to accompany Rudolf. The family decides on trying to "sell" one of their own daughters, Anna, to Rudolf. The only one opposed to the idea is her alcoholic father, Joe. His daughter Stellas husband Frank (Annas brother-in-law) persuades Joe to agree by beating him. Anna, considered a black sheep of the family, living in Brooklyn and working in a bar called Noahs Ark for a living. She is attracted to a sailor named Danny Johnson, and when he tells her he has saved up enough money to go ashore, she believes he will ask her to marry him. But he doesnt. When Anna is asked by the family to return home, she reluctantly does so, having no other plausible alternative. Rudolf isnt as gullible as the family had thought. He is an educated man who plans to work hard on the family land to make it prosper while working as a teacher in a school. He takes an instant liking to Anna, but her father tries to persuade him he could do better. Angry with her father, she goes to a local bar for a drink. Rudolf joins Anna in the bar and they end up having dinner together. Rudolf proposes to her the next day, but she doesnt give him an answer. On the farm she is reminded of when she used to live there when she was younger, and scolded by her father for kissing a boy, which caused her to leave her home. Haunted by these bad memories, she goes to the train station to leave town. Rudolf follows her once again, and persuades her to stay and marry him. He gives her the $4,000 he has with him, but the money is stolen by her family before their wedding. When Rudolf and Anna are about to get married, sailor Danny arrives and asks for her. Joe talks to him and then goes to Anna and threatens to ruin Rudolfs reputation by disclosing details about Annas previous life. Joe demands that Anna leaves town with Danny immediately. Anna sees no other alternative than to leave with Danny and goes back to Brooklyn. But Rudolf doesnt give up. He tracks her down to Brooklyn and eventually discovers the bar where she works. He waits but she doesnt turn up, so instead he leaves a message that her father Joe has died and leaves. When Anna arrives to the bar she gets the message and tries to contact him. She finds that he has left his hotel already, and loses all hope of reconciliation. When she leaves the bar after work, Rudolf is outside waiting for her.
Anna Lucasta (1949 film)
1949