In late 1800s Ohio, a young woman from the backwoods, Annie Oakley (Barbara Stanwyck) delivers six dozen quail she has shot to the owner of the general store. He sends them to the MacIvor hotel in Cincinnati, where the mayor is holding a large banquet in honor of Toby Walker (Preston Foster), the "greatest shot in the whole world". Walker is particular about what he eats–the hotel owner (James MacIvor, played by Andy Clyde) bought Oakleys quail because she shoots the quail cleanly through the head, leaving no buckshot elsewhere. At the banquet, Jeff Hogarth (Melvyn Douglas) signs Walker to a contract making him part of Buffalo Bills Wild West Show. MacIvor challenges Walker to a shooting contest to take place the next morning. MacIvor arranges for "Andy" Oakley to compete against Walker, only to be shocked when she shows up. He tries unsuccessfully to call the whole thing off. The scheduled match ends in a tie, so they proceed to sudden death. The two sharpshooters continue hitting their targets. Following a comment from Oakleys mother (Margaret Armstrong) Oakley deliberately misses her next shot. Walker is a gracious, though unsuspecting winner; Hogarth knows exactly what happened.  When the Oakleys return home, Annie promises to pay back all those who bet on her. Hogarth follows and tells Annie that he never bet the money she gave to him. He also invites her to join the Wild West Show. Oakley, having developed a crush on Walker, accepts. Hogarth introduces her to Buffalo Bill (Moroni Olsen) and the other members of the show. When Walker overhears Buffalo Bill telling Hogarth that he might have to fire Oakley because she lacks showmanship, he teaches her some fancy shootin and tricks. At the first show, Chief Sitting Bull (Chief Thunderbird) is in the audience with Iron Eyes Cody as his translator. Ned Buntline (an uncredited Dick Elliott), Buffalo Bills publicist, tries to sign him up for the show, but the chief is bored with the acts until he sees Annie shoot five targets thrown in the air. He is so impressed, he changes his mind and joins the show. A romance blossoms between Oakley and Walker, despite Hogarths attempts to win Oakleys affections for himself. They also become good friends with Sitting Bull. One day, a man with a grudge tries to shoot Sitting Bull. Walker grabs the mans gun just as it goes off, saving his friends life. However, his eyes are affected by the closeness of the shot. While Oakleys fortunes rise, Walkers decline. He hides his injury, but ends up shooting Oakley in the hand and is dismissed from the show. Much to Annies heartbreak, Hogarth and Wild Bill keep Walker away from her. However, during a chance meeting, a woman accompanying Walker tells Annie that shes been nothing but bad luck to Walker. Although Walker tries to stop the woman, Annie feels what she says is true and unhappily retreats. After a triumphant tour of Europe, the show next plays in New York City, Walkers home town. When Walker attends the show, Sitting Bull spots him and reunites the loving couple.
Annie Oakley (film)
1935