Adela Quested (Judy Davis) is sailing from England to British Raj India with Mrs Moore (Peggy Ashcroft), the latter the mother of her intended bridegroom, Ronny Heaslop (Nigel Havers); Mrs Moores son from her first marriage. He is the Collector and the City magistrate in Chandrapore, the anglicized spelling of Chandrapur. Adela intends to see if she can make a go of it. The ladies are disappointed to find that the British community is very much separated from the Indian population and culture with a growing Indian independence movement in the 1920s. They are encouraged when the local school superintendent Richard Fielding (James Fox), brings into their acquaintance the eccentric elderly Hindu Brahmin scholar Professor Narayan Godbole (Alec Guinness). Mrs Moore meets by chance another Indian local, Dr Aziz Ahmed (Victor Banerjee), a widower who is surprised by her kindness and lack of prejudice. Aziz offers to host an excursion to the local Marabar Caves. The initial exploration of the caves shows that those included in the party should be limited when Mrs Moore suffers from claustrophobia and the noise from the large entourage echoes exponentially inside the caves. Mrs Moore encourages Adela and Aziz to continue their exploration of the caves alone with just one guide. They reach the caves at a higher elevation some distance from the group and, before entering, Aziz steps away to take a cigarette. He returns to find Adela has disappeared. Shortly after he sees her running headlong down the hill, disheveled. She is picked up by the doctors wife, Mrs. Callendar (Ann Firbank), and taken to the Callendars home. Adela is bleeding and delirious. Dr Callendar medicates Adela with a hypodermic syringe. Upon his return to Chandrapore, Aziz, accused of attempting to rape Adela at the caves, is jailed to await trial, and the incident becomes a cause célèbre. Mrs Moore firmly believes Aziz to not have committed any offense and she leaves India for England. At sea, Mrs Moore takes ill and dies quickly. In court, Adela is questioned by the prosecution; it becomes clear to her that her earlier signed accusation of attempted rape was incorrect and she recants. Aziz is celebrated for his innocence and Adela is abandoned to her own devices by the British except for Mr Fielding who assists her to safety to the college. She plans to return to England at the earliest moment. Aziz rids himself of his western associations and vows to find a new job in an Indian state; he opens a clinic in the lake area near Srinagar, Kashmir. Meanwhile, through Adela, Fielding has married Stella Moore, Mrs Moores daughter from her second marriage. Aziz eventually reconciles with Fielding, and Aziz writes to Adela asking her to forgive him for taking so long to come to appreciate the courage she exercised when she withdrew her accusation in court.
A Passage to India (film)
1984