Michael Faraday (Jeff Bridges) is a widower and college history professor at George Washington University with a son, Grant (Spencer Treat Clark). While driving he encounters a boy, Brady (Mason Gamble), staggering in the road with horrific injuries to his hands. Michael takes him to hospital, and meets his parents Oliver (Tim Robbins) and Cheryl Lang (Joan Cusack), discovering they are his neighbors. The families soon become friends, and their sons join the Discoverers, a Scouts-style group. Actions of the Langs arouse latent suspicion in Michael. Michael sees blueprints in the Langs house which are not for the building project Oliver, a structural engineer, claims, and a wrongly delivered letter suggests he lied about where he attended college. After Michael describes impersonal treatment from the government after his wife, an FBI agent, was killed in the line of duty, Oliver states his belief that the government should be punished for its mistakes. Michaels girlfriend, Brooke (Hope Davis), and his wifes former FBI partner, Whit Carver (Robert Gossett), dismiss Michaels concerns as paranoia. Michael takes his college class on a field trip to the site of the standoff in which his wife was killed, and passionately excoriates the government for failing to sufficiently investigate the besieged family, and for provoking the standoff. Michaels students appear uneasy. Oliver tells Michael that Grant wishes someone could be punished for his mothers death, at which Michael is again suspicious. Michael discovers in archives that Olivers real name is William Fenimore, and that he tried to blow up a post office in Kansas at age 16. He is seen by Oliver, who is incensed and later confronts him, condemning his presumption of judgment. Oliver states that he sought revenge on the government for causing his fathers suicide, that he was imprisoned, and admits to changing his identity to hide his past from his children. Michael appears to let the matter drop. However, Brooke later sees Oliver swap cars with a stranger in a parking lot, and follows him to a delivery depot where a number of metal boxes are exchanged. From a payphone, she leaves Michael a message that his suspicions may have been correct, but is discovered by Cheryl. Michael learns of Brookes (off-screen) death on the news, where it appears she died in a car crash. He discovers inadvertently that messages left on his answering machine had been erased, and again suspects foul play, telling Whit about Oliver/William and asking him to check FBI records, and records of calls to his home. Michael visits the father of Dean Scobee, accused of blowing up a federal building in St. Louis, from where the Langs had moved. Dr. Scobee is certain his son was innocent since 10 children died in the bombing. Michael becomes certain Dean was set up and panics when he sees a photo of Dean in a Discoverer troop with Brady, with whom Grant is currently on a field trip, and rushes to retrieve him. Troop leaders tell him that Grant was taken home with Brady. Michael confronts Oliver at his home, where he confirms that his group killed Brooke, and implies that Grant will be killed if Michael tries to involve others. Whit accosts Michael the following day, stating the FBI discovered nothing suspicious about Oliver/William or his acquaintances, and says that Michaels missing telephone message was from a payphone. The next day, Michael drives to the payphone where he sees a passing delivery vehicle. He follows it to its depot, where he sees men he recognizes from Olivers house and from Discoverer photographs, loading metal boxes into the van. Michael follows the van and is shocked to see Grant at the window, and gives chase. Oliver intercepts Michaels car, causing a crash, and beats him, saying Michael will not see Grant again. Oliver expounds on his groups anti-government mission, and their current target the FBI. Michael overpowers Oliver and drives to FBI headquarters, calling Whit to warn him. Michael sees a delivery van at the gate and illegally pursues it into the secure parking garage, but discovers that the van has a different driver and is empty. Whit tells Michael that he is the only unauthorized person in the building. Michael rushes back to his own car, discovering a bomb in the trunk seconds before it detonates. The blast partially collapses the FBI headquarters, as Oliver watches impassively from a distance. In a montage of television news clips, Michael is portrayed as a lonewolf terrorist who had sought revenge on the FBI for his wifes death. Statements from his students (one of whom is a conspirator) support the official story, giving accounts of his erratic and paranoid behavior and inferring that he held a dangerous grudge against the FBI. Grant, now orphaned, moves in with relatives, tragically unaware of his fathers innocence. The final scene implies that the Langs, who successfully misdirected law enforcement, will soon move house in preparation for another attack.
Arlington Road
1999