Pat Travis (Troy Evans) is a Vietnam war veteran who needs a triple bypass heart surgery, and thus heads off to the government-funded Monument Heights Veterans Hospital in Washington D.C. However, as he gets there, he meets a hospital in complete chaos, riddled with lethargic, insidious bureaucracy and unable to accommodate new patients due to the governments creeping cutback policy. There, he meets wiseguy veterans Luther Jerome (Keith David), who introduces him to the hospitals hectic situation, and Shooter Polaski (Leo Burmester), who shortly drives through the hospitals entrance and starts a shooting rampage with his M16 after being issued an Article 99 form - which states the hospital finds the patient eligible, but cant be treated immediately as the supposed ailment is not combat-related. The hospital is managed by the by-the-book bureaucrat Executive Director, Dr. Henry Dreyfoos (John Mahoney), who is determined to uphold the governments policies by any means, to the point of directly cutting patients acceptance rates by half and instituting rigorous dressing codes and supply upkeeping regulations. Hes backed up by Chief of Medicine Leo Krutz (Jeffrey Tambor) and Chief Nurse Amelia Sturdeyvant (Julie Bovasso), who follow and back-up Dreyfoos policies, fearing for their jobs. Dreyfoos greatest opposition comes from the hospitals ER team led by surgeon Dr. Richard Sturgess (Ray Liotta), who has no qualms in exposing Dreyfoos politicking to the press when he has the opportunity (Mostly thanks to his friend Luther) and performing illegal midnight hospital supply thefts called midnight requisitions to be able to properly perform surgeries. Dreyfoos is aware of Sturgess activities, but cant prosecute him as he cant gather evidence. Sturgess team is shortly joined by Dr. Peter Morgan (Kiefer Sutherland), who plans to work temporarily in the hospital before starting private practice. Hes eventually instructed by Sturgess and his colleagues Ruby Bobrick (John C. McGinley), Sid Handleman (Forest Whitaker) and Robin Van Dorn (Lea Thompson) and constantly monitored by Nurse White (Lynne Thigpen). His potential after failing to attend to Travis heart attack and causing a ruptured artery has Sturgess trying to convince him to join the team and also fight Dreyfoos administration, but Morgan refuses, fearful their wrongdoings will eventually influence his medicine career. Meanwhile, Morgan also meets World War II veteran Sam Abrams (Eli Wallach), considered by the hospital a gomer, a person that cant be admitted even with critical condition and has constantly to be moved and kept from administration so he wont be dismissed until he can be cured. Abrams sharing of experiences with Morgan has the newcomer doctor slowly start caring for him and start disagreeing to several of the hospitals conditions, especially that he cant properly accommodate the veteran and has to use old diagnoses to repeat needless exams. Morgan also starts a relationship with Robin while Sturgess does so with psychologist Diana Walton (Kathy Baker), equally a by-the-book character that slowly starts opening up to Sturgess shortly after Polaskis incident. Morgan learns, through overhearing Dreyfoos conversation through the phone, a new shipment of cardiac surgery tools is stored in the Pathology department and relays it to Sturgess, who performs a midnight requisition to get them. Unfortunately, this was an elaborate trap set by Dreyfoos, who films the theft and blackmails Sturgess into voluntary suspension and declaration of guilt when charges are brought up, in exchange for the tape and a written declaration sparing both Bobrick and Handleman. Sturgess falls apart while Walton backs him up, committed on not giving up on him. Shortly after, Abrams himself passes away and this affects Morgan heavily, feeling he failed him and starting to take charge. Morgan eventually finds Dreyfoos tape and, infuriated he was used as bait, declares open rebellion against Dreyfoos, getting himself suspended. Morgan arranges for Sturgess to return to the hospital and both, along with Luther and the veterans, start planning a hostile takeover to properly attend the patients without the administrations interference. The veterans successfully lock the security guards outside while Dreyfoos is away, and Luther, armed with Polaskis M16, keeps the guards away while the police, despite being pressured, cant remove the blocking veterans as the hospital is under federal jurisdiction, much to Dreyfoos chagrin. It doesnt take long before the press arrives and this catches attention of the FBI and the Inspector General (Noble Willingham), who hastily travels to assess the situation. The Inspector General attempts negotiating with Luther, but he stands his ground as the veterans unfurl a massive banner in the hospital written No Surrender. The FBI prepares to break into the hospital and retake it by force, cutting off the power supply and issuing a final warning. Sturgess, who starts Travis triple bypass surgery after hes in critical condition, leaves Morgan in charge as he convinces Luther to lay down resistance and reopen the hospital, much to the Inspector Generals shock. He and Dreyfoos enter the building and attempt to interrupt Travis surgery and have Morgan arrested, but Morgan stands his ground. Dreyfoos tries insisting on the arrest, but the Inspector General, revealed to have been a Vietnam war veteran and acknowledging the situation the hospital is facing, spares Morgan and puts Dreyfoos under a congressional hearing, suspending him from the hospital management and terminating his bureaucratic career. Morgan decides to become a permanent resident in Monument Heights as no prosecutions are made and Travis is saved. Victory is sadly short-lived, as Dreyfoos unnamed replacement decides to upkeep Dreyfoos previous policies. Morgan and Sturgess decide to join up and make their stand against the new administration.
Article 99
1992