Nightclub owner Philip Richards (Ricardo Cortez) announced that he will marry Helen Armstrong (Maris Wrixon) and is selling his business to George Kilpatrick (Theodore Von Eltz). A local racketeer, Schaffer, wants to know why Philip refused his higher offer and makes a threat against George Kilpatrick. Philips ex-girlfriend Clare Winters try to stop him from selling the club and hold a gun on him, which he takes away and puts in his safe. A reporter, Peter Kennedy (William Lundigan) who is in love with the clubs singer Dixie Waye (Nan Wynn) meets George Kilpatrick at the airport, who on his way to the taxi is shot and killed. Peters rival for Dixies affections, lieutenant William Ryder (Regis Toomey) question Philip about George Kilpatricks murder. At Philips apartment, William is introduced to Philips fiancée Helen and her brother Roger. Waiting at Clares, Peter finds out that Clare is missing. Later, William and Peter learn that Roger has been attacked in his apartment, and the attacker left behind a handkerchief with the initials "A. M". Peter thinks it might belong to Philips right-hand man, Al Martin (Noel Madison) who recently left town. Clares body is later found, along with the gun that Philip took away from her. The elevator boy reveals that he saw a man matching Philips description on the same floor where Clares room is. William arrests Philip who confesses to the murder but pulls a gun and escapes. William thinks he is protecting someone else and didnt really kill Clare. Dixie accepts a date with Roger and a photographer snap a picture of them together. In a jealous rage, Helen fires Dixie and Peter takes her jealousy that shes not really Rogers sister. William and Peter questions them and Helen confesses that she killed Clare in self-defense when Clare threatened her life. William learns over the telephone that Clare is George Kilpatricks ex-wife. He later confronts Helen, and Philip who has been hiding in her home comes out. Helen and Roger escape in the confusion. After a chase, they are captured and confess to both murders. William tells Peter that Al and Clare wanted to break Philips engagement and that Philip was trying to take the blame for Clares murder to protect Helen. Afterward, they both approach Dixie for a date, but she leaves with a naval officer.
A Shot in the Dark (1941 film)
1941