On the eve of the French Revolution, Lucie Manette (Elizabeth Allan) is informed that her father (Henry B. Walthall) is not dead, but has been a prisoner in the Bastille for many long years before finally being released. She travels to Paris to take her father to her home in England. Dr. Manette has been taken care of by a friend, Ernest Defarge (Mitchell Lewis), and his wife (Blanche Yurka). The old mans mind has given way during his long ordeal, but Lucies tender care begins to restore his sanity. On the trip across the English Channel, Lucie meets Charles Darnay (Donald Woods), a French aristocrat who, unlike his unfeeling uncle, the Marquis de St. Evremonde (Basil Rathbone), is sympathetic to the plight of the downtrodden French masses. Darnay is framed for treason, but is saved by the cleverness of the dissolute lawyer Sydney Carton (Ronald Colman). Carton goes drinking with Barsad (Walter Catlett), the main prosecution witness, and tricks him into admitting that he lied. When Barsad is called to testify, he is horrified to discover that Carton is one of the defense attorneys and grudgingly allows that he might have been mistaken. Darnay is released. Carton is thanked by Lucie, who had been a witness at the trial. He quickly falls in love with her, but realizes it is hopeless. Lucie eventually marries Darnay, and they have a daughter. By this time, the Reign of Terror has engulfed France. The long-suffering commoners vent their fury on the aristocrats, condemning scores daily to Madame Guillotine. Darnay is tricked into returning to Paris and arrested. Dr. Manette pleads for mercy for his son-in-law, but Madame Defarge, seeking revenge against all the Evremondes, regardless of guilt or innocence, convinces the tribunal to sentence him to death with a letter Dr. Manette wrote exposing the guilt of Darnays uncle, Marquis de St. Evremonde. While trying to comfort the family, Carton knows that they are themselves in grave danger. When Lorry tries to convince him otherwise, Carton tells him that he is aware that Madame Defarge will stop at nothing just to get the vengeance she craves for. This is evident when Carton noticed her behavior in having the Vengeance give Lucies daughter a miniature guillotine during their trip at Defarges and which he confiscated. He comes up with a desperate rescue plan to stop her. He first persuades Lucie and her friends to leave Paris by promising to save Darnay. Next he confronts an old acquaintance, Barsad, now an influential man in the French government, to enable him to visit Darnay in jail. When he refuses to cooperate, Carton blackmails him into doing what he asks by threatening to reveal his secret about being a paid spy for the Marquis to the tribunal if he doesnt allow him to see Darnay. There, Carton drugs the prisoner unconscious, switches places with him, and finishes the letter to Lucie to be put in his jacket pocket. Barsad and the guard has Darnay carried out to be reunited with his family. Madame Defarge, her thirst for vengeance still unsatisfied, goes to have Lucie and her daughter arrested, only to find that they have fled with Dr. Manette. When she finds out theyre gone after searching the rooms, Madame Defarge tries to flee. She is confronted by Miss Pross (Edna May Oliver), Lucies devoted servant who locks her inside in an attempt to prevent her from warning the populace. In the ensuing struggle, Madame Defarge is killed by Miss Pross. She clutches her ear and runs from the scene. Meanwhile, only a condemned seamstress (Isabel Jewell) notices Cartons substitution, but keeps quiet. She draws comfort in his heroism as they ride in the same cart to the execution place. As the camera rises just before the blade falls, Cartons voice is heard, saying, "Its a far, far better thing I do than I have ever done. Its a far, far better rest I go to than I have ever known."
A Tale of Two Cities (1935 film)
1935