Plainview is a peaceful town, all the better for bad men Alvin Dennis, his brother Bob, and their gang, to rob the bank there. They figure small-town sheriff Pete MacKay will not pose much of a problem. MacKay is having his usual chess game with Doc Lacy at the general store Jack Wright runs with wife Martha and brother-in-law Wally. A gunshot from the bank startles all. Bob has shot a teller, then guns down the old marshal when he arrives. Jack is just a meek storekeeper, but he manages to grab a gun and wing the fleeing Alvin Dennis, who is then killed by another townsman, George Henderson. And the banks loot is saved. Everybody, particularly banker Livingston, appreciates the bravery of the town heroes. But when the Amarillo newspaper publishes their photographs, Bob Dennis decides to return to Plainview to avenge his brothers death. The grateful town throws a celebration for both Henderson and Jack. As a tipsy Henderson, who has been appointed the new sheriff, is riding back to his ranch after the party, he is ambushed and killed. Jack could be next. A marshal comes to town to keep an eye on things, but cant stay forever and leaves after two uneventful weeks. Jack, his wife and son Billy, begin to notice that their neighbors are shunning them, no longer shopping at the store or even allowing their kids to come near them. A $2,500 reward for Alvin Dennis capture is a pleasant surprise for Jack, but when Wally is mistaken for him and murdered in cold blood by Bob Dennis, no one is willing to help. In fact, he is offered more money by Livingston and other frightened citizens if he will sell them the store and leave town. Doc and the Wrights are ashamed of everyones lack of support in Jacks hour of need. Jack arms himself to face Bob Dennis and his gang. He is outmatched, but suddenly the men in town, brandishing firearms, appear in windows and on the street, demanding the gang drop their guns and surrender. All but Bob give up and, as the outlaw approaches Jack, Doc manages to shoot him. The townspeople offer apologies to the Wrights, who are immediately willing to forgive and forget. Doc storms off, apparently not so willing.
At Gunpoint
1956