A Greek fisherman named Demetrios and his father rescue Princess Antillia from a shipwreck without knowing that she is from the technologically advanced civilization of Atlantis. After rescuing the princess, Demetrios must travel beyond the Pillars of Hercules to take her home. After they are picked up at sea near Atlantis by a giant fish-like submarine boat, Demetrios, expecting to receive a reward for returning Antillia, is instead enslaved and forced to work in the crater of the volcano that dominates the center of the continent. King Cronus is being manipulated by an ambitious usurper, Zaren, collaborating with the court sorcerer, Sonoy the Astrologer, who wishes to use the resources of Atlantis in order to conquer the known world. From the continents volcano, the slaves of Atlantis have been mining unique power crystals which absorb the suns rays and can then be used to fire heat ray beams. The crystals were originally used to produce light and heat, but due to its arrogance, corruption, and moral laxity, Atlantis has made the crystals into a deadly heat ray weapon, and has now become "an abomination before Heaven". Taken to the House of Fear, where a mad scientist turns slaves into beasts, Demetrios is saved by being given the chance to undergo the ordeal of fire and water. He fights with a giant ogre in a pit of burning coals. Demetrios outmaneuvers his clumsy opponent, setting fire to the ogres hair, the fight contrasting with the uproarious laughter coming from the massive crowd in the coliseum, cheering on the spectacle. Later, after killing the ogre in a rising pool of water, Demetrios is declared a free citizen of Atlantis. Impending doom hangs heavy in the air of Atlantis. The birds, animals, and even the insects are fleeing what appears to be the coming destruction of the continent. With the help of a kindly high priest named Azar (Edward Platt), who explains these signs of apocalypse to him, Demetrios is later able to rescue Princess Antillia after he has helped the slaves of Atlantis to escape the coming destruction. The skies darken, the ground begins to shake, and the destruction of Atlantis begins, just as Zarens giant crystal ray weapon is fired by him on the fleeing citizens, as he tries to destroy Demetrios and Princess Antillia struggling to escape through the fleeing multitude. The volcano undergoes a cataclysmic eruption. As the continent proceeds to tear itself apart, the people of Atlantis panic, striving without success to escape their doom. Azar and Zaren wrestle after Azar is able to stab him with Zarens own knife. The large crystal ray weapon swings back and forth, out of control, firing at random, until it suddenly incinerates them both. As lightning flashes and thunder roars, the entire continent is sinking just before it begins to rise up quickly. Just as quickly the sea bottom collapses, and Atlantis plunges beneath the waves. The large crystal atop the capitals large pyramid, the main power source for the entire continent, short-circuits, and a massive explosion follows. The skies suddenly clear. Various groups of survivors, including Demetrios and Antillia, flee to Greece and other parts of the world, where they are absorbed into other cultures, and the Legend of Lost Atlantis is spread through the many peoples and nations that follow through the centuries.
Atlantis, the Lost Continent
1961