Rashad is a teen living in Atlanta, Georgia with his Uncle George, and his little brother, Ant. He and his brother were raised by George since their parents died in a car accident, and they work with him as part of his custodial company. When not working or finishing his last semester of high school, Rashad spends most of his time with his friends. Rashad is a talented artist but does not see much of a future in that field as he has become accustomed to working the family business. Esquire, Rashads best friend, goes to a prep school on the opposite side of town from where they live, and is trying to attend an Ivy League college after senior year. However, he finds out that he will need a letter of recommendation from someone of high stature to better his chances of acceptance at the school he wants to attend. Rashad and his friends are also a skate crew at a skating rink where local teens hang out. While there, Rashad catches the eye of New-New, a girl with a mysterious background, since he only sees her around when she is hanging out with her friends. The two become attracted to one another and they later kiss when he gives her a ride home in his Chevrolet El Camino. Esquire instantly develops a disliking for Rashads new love interest, considering her bad company. No longer under Rashads watchful eyes, Ant becomes involved with a Marcus, a drug dealer, and begins to sell for him. At work one day, Esquire meets John Garnett, a millionaire. The two become friends and Esquire sees an opportunity to obtain the letter of recommendation. When Esquire goes to Garnetts house to pick up the letter, he meets his daughter Erin, who turns out to be New-New. Erin says that she will reveal where Esquire is really from (something he lied to her father about) if he tells Rashad about her. Eventually Rashad finds out the truth about Erin. He no longer speaks to his friends, realizing that Esquire knew about Erin the whole time. Esquire, feeling guilty about the way he obtained the letter, decides to return it to Garnett, and reveals the truth about himself. He also attempts to make peace with Rashad and ask him to attend Skate Wars, the annual skate competition. Rashad initially refuses the offer, but changes his mind after speaking to his uncle. Before he can attend he finds out that Marcus is looking for Ant and the money he owes him. Rashad tracks the two down and after a confrontation Ant is shot in the chest. At the hospital, Rashad and Ant reconnect. Rashad and his friends make peace as well, each going onto succeed in their endevours.
ATL (film)
2006