In 1967, British spy Austin Powers thwarts an assassination attempt by his nemesis Dr. Evil in a London nightclub. Dr. Evil escapes in a space rocket disguised as a Big Boy statue, and cryogenically freezes himself. Powers volunteers to be placed into cryostasis in case Dr. Evil returns in the future. Thirty years later, in 1997, Dr. Evil returns to discover his henchman Number 2 has developed Virtucon, the legitimate front of Evils empire, into a multibillion-dollar enterprise. Uninterested by genuine business, Dr. Evil conspires to steal nuclear weapons and hold the world hostage for $100 billion. Evil also learns that, during his absence, his associates have artificially created his son, Scott Evil, using his frozen semen. Now a Generation X teenager, Scott is resentful of his father’s absence and resists Dr. Evils attempts to get closer to him. Having learned of Dr. Evils return, the British Ministry of Defence unfreezes Powers, acclimatizing him to the 1990s with the help of agent Vanessa Kensington, the daughter of his sidekick in the 1960s, Mrs. Kensington. Posing as a married couple, Powers and Kensington track Number 2 to Las Vegas and meet his Italian secretary, Alotta Fagina. Later, Powers infiltrates Faginas penthouse suite for reconnaissance and discovers plans for Dr. Evils "Project Vulcan", which involves drilling a nuclear warhead into the Earths molten core and triggering volcanic eruptions worldwide. Fagina discovers Powers in her suite and seduces him into revealing his true identity. Learning that Powers is back, Dr. Evil and his entourage conspire to defeat the spy by creating a series of fembots: beautiful female androids equipped with automatic guns concealed in their breasts. The fembots were tested on security guards, who were asked to shoot them but none of them were able to resist them so the fembots shot all of them. Powers and Kensington attempt to infiltrate the Virtucon headquarters but are soon apprehended by Dr. Evils henchman, Random Task. Meanwhile, the United Nations accede to the demands of Dr. Evil, who proceeds with Project Vulcan regardless. Powers and Kensington are placed in a death trap by Dr. Evil, but they easily escape, and Kensington is sent for help. While searching for Dr. Evil, Powers is confronted by the fembots, which he briefly could not resist after they knocked him out with gas. He ends up being in bed surrounded by fembots, comforting him. After he finally breaks free and was heading to the door, the fembots said that he would not be able to resist them. Powers took the challenge, and starts to do a striptease. Wearing nothing but his red union jack underwear and socks, the fembots all exploded due to the fact that they could not handle his sexiness. Keshington came and two guards(whom one of them is revealed to be gay) and witness Powers still dancing even though the fembots are terminated. Powers explained and she believed him, and demanded him to get dressed. British forces raid the underground lair, while Powers finds the doomsday device and deactivates it. Powers confronts Dr. Evil, but Fagina arrives holding Kensington hostage. They are interrupted by Number 2, who attempts to betray Dr. Evil by making a deal with Powers. Dr. Evil uses a trap door to eliminate Number 2, then activates the base’s self-destruct mechanism and escapes. Powers and Kensington flee just as a nuclear explosion destroys the lair. Powers and Kensington are later married, and during their honeymoon Powers is attacked by Random Task. Powers subdues the assassin using a penis pump, allowing Kensington to knock him out using a bottle of champagne. Afterwards, the newlyweds adjourn to the balcony. Among the stars, Powers spots the cryogenic chamber of Dr. Evil, who vows revenge on Powers.
Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery
1999