In 1999, Austin Powers enjoys his honeymoon with his wife, the former Vanessa Kensington. She turns out to be one of Dr. Evils fembots, who attempts to kill Austin, then self-destructs. Austin grieves briefly before realizing he is single again. A NATO monitoring facility observes the return of Dr. Evil, who confronts his son Scott and starts a riot on The Jerry Springer Show. At Dr. Evils Seattle headquarters, Dr. Evil is presented with a one-eighth-size clone of himself whom he names Mini-Me. Dr. Evil unveils his latest plan: he has developed a time machine to go back to the 1960s and steal Austins mojo, his source of his sexual appeal. Dr. Evil and Mini-Me travel to 1969 and meet a younger Number Two and Frau Farbissina. An obese "Scottish Guard" called Fat Bastard extracts Austins mojo from his frozen body at the Ministry of Defence. British intelligence warns Austin that one of Dr. Evils agents is after him, and during a photo shoot the wanton Ivana Humpalot seduces him, but at the last moment claims he is too sexy to kill. They have sex, but he discovers he has lost his mojo and is impotent. The MOD sends Austin to 1969 utilizing a time-travelling convertible Volkswagen New Beetle. Austin arrives at a party in his London pad, and with the assistance of CIA agent Felicity Shagwell escapes an assassination attempt by Dr. Evils operatives. Austin and Felicity are pursued by Mustafa, another of Dr. Evils henchmen; when caught he reveals the existence of Dr. Evils volcano lair. Before he can divulge its location, Mini-Me shoots him with a dart, causing him to fall off a cliff. Examining photographs from the crime scene, Austin identifies Fat Bastard as the perpetrator of the theft of his mojo. At Dr. Evils lair, Fat Bastard arrives with Austins mojo. Dr. Evil drinks some of it and has sex with Frau Farbissina. This results in an awkward situation when Frau reveals she is pregnant before Scott, Dr. Evils son, arrives through the time portal. Dr. Evil announces his latest plan — to hold the world ransom by threatening to destroy cities using a laser on the Moon. In London, Austin and Felicity get to know each other, but when Felicity tries having sex with him, he turns her down because of his lost mojo. Under MOD instructions to implant a homing device into Fat Bastard, Felicity seduces him, allowing her to plant it in his anus. Fat Bastard forces it out of his bowels into a Paddington Station toilet, but a stool sample reveals traces of a vegetable that only grows on one Caribbean island. Austin and Felicity arrive on the island but are apprehended. They are put in a cell with a guard who is overcome when Felicity exposes her breasts. Dr. Evil and Mini-Me leave for the Moon to install the laser pursued by Austin and Felicity on Apollo 11. In Dr. Evils moon base, Austin battles with Mini-Me, eventually flushing him into space. As Austin confronts Dr. Evil, Dr. Evil gives him a choice: save the world or Felicity, who is locked in a chamber with poison gas. Felicity tells Austin to save the world and he succeeds, but Felicity dies. Before Austin can kill him, Dr. Evil suggests Austin use the time machine to save both Felicity and the world. Austin travels ten minutes into the past, meeting up with himself and saving the world and Felicity. Dr. Evil initiates the self-destruct mechanism of the moon base and escapes after throwing Austins mojo into the air. Both Austins fail to catch it and it is destroyed. Felicity points out that all the things Austin has done show that he never lost his mojo. They escape through the time portal to 1999. At Austins Pad, Fat Bastard makes another attempt to assassinate Austin, but Felicity disarms him. Felicity and Austin then throw a party. In 1969, Dr. Evil recovers Mini-Me from space and vows revenge. On Jerry Springer, Scott learns he is the love child of Dr. Evil and Frau Farbissina. Austin returns to his pad to discover Felicity with the past Austin, who claims that since he and Austin are the same person, it is not cheating.
Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me
1999