In 2154, humans have depleted Earths natural resources, leading to a severe energy crisis. The Resources Development Administration (RDA for short) mines for a valuable mineral — unobtanium — on Pandora, a densely forested habitable moon orbiting the gas giant Polyphemus in the Alpha Centauri star system. Pandora, whose atmosphere is poisonous to humans, is inhabited by the Navi, a species of 10-foot tall (3.0 m), blue-skinned, sapient humanoids that live in harmony with nature and worship a mother goddess named Eywa. To explore Pandoras biosphere, scientists use Navi-human hybrids called "avatars," operated by genetically matched humans; Jake Sully, a paraplegic former Marine, replaces his deceased identical twin brother as an operator of one. Dr. Grace Augustine, head of the Avatar Program, considers Sully an inadequate replacement but accepts his assignment as a bodyguard. While protecting the avatars of Grace and fellow scientist Dr. Norm Spellman as they collect biological data, Jakes avatar is attacked by a thanator and flees into the forest, where he is rescued by Neytiri, a female Navi. Witnessing an auspicious sign, she takes him to her clan, whereupon Neytiris mother Moat, the clans spiritual leader, orders her daughter to initiate Jake into their society. Colonel Miles Quaritch, head of RDAs private security force, promises Jake that the company will restore his legs if he gathers information about the Navi and the clans gathering place, a giant tree called Hometree, on grounds that it stands above the richest deposit of unobtanium in the area. When Grace learns of this, she transfers herself, Jake, and Norm to an outpost. Over the following three months, Jake grows to sympathize with the natives. After Jake is initiated into the tribe, he and Neytiri choose each other as mates, and soon afterward, Jake reveals his change of allegiance when he attempts to disable a bulldozer that threatens to destroy a sacred Navi site. When Quaritch shows a video recording of Jakes attack on the bulldozer to Administrator Parker Selfridge, and another in which Jake admits that the Navi will never abandon Hometree, Selfridge orders Hometree destroyed. Despite Graces argument that destroying Hometree could damage the biological neural network native to Pandora, Selfridge gives Jake and Grace one hour to convince the Navi to evacuate before commencing the attack. While trying to warn the Navi, Jake confesses to being a spy, and the Navi take him and Grace captive. Seeing this, Quaritchs men destroy Hometree, killing Neytiris father (the clan chief) and many others. Moat frees Jake and Grace, but they are detached from their avatars and imprisoned by Quaritchs forces. Pilot Trudy Chacón, disgusted by Quaritchs brutality, carries them to Graces outpost, but during the escape Quaritch fires at them, hitting Grace. To regain the Navis trust, Jake connects his mind to that of Toruk, a dragon-like predator feared and honored by the Navi. Jake finds the refugees at the sacred Tree of Souls and pleads with Moat to heal Grace. The clan attempts to transfer Grace from her human body into her avatar with the aid of the Tree of Souls, but she dies before the process can be completed. Supported by the new chief Tsutey, Jake speaks to unite the clan and tells them to gather all of the clans to battle against the RDA. Noticing the impending gathering, Quaritch organizes a pre-emptive strike against the Tree of Souls, believing that its destruction will demoralize the natives. On the eve of battle, Jake prays to Eywa, via a neural connection with the Tree of Souls, to intercede on behalf of the Navi. During the subsequent battle, the Navi suffer heavy casualties, including Tsutey and Trudy; but are rescued when Pandoran wildlife unexpectedly join the attack and overwhelm the humans, which Neytiri interprets as Eywas answer to Jakes prayer. Jake destroys a makeshift bomber before it can reach the Tree of Souls; Quaritch, wearing an AMP suit, escapes from his own damaged aircraft and breaks open the avatar link unit containing Jakes human body, exposing it to Pandoras poisonous atmosphere. Quaritch prepares to slit the throat of Jakes avatar, but Neytiri kills Quaritch and saves Jake from suffocation. With the exceptions of Jake, Norm and a select few others, all humans are expelled from Pandora and sent back to Earth, after which Jake is permanently transferred into his avatar with the aid of the Tree of Souls.
Avatar (2009 film)
2009