One evening, a man claiming to be Carols long-lost first husband, Roy Martin, shows up at the suburban Brady residence. He is actually a con man named Trevor Thomas and is there to steal their familiar horse statue that is actually a $20 million ancient artifact. They, portrayed as naïve, believe his story about suffering from amnesia and having plastic surgery after being injured. Mike has been planning a second wedding/renewal of vows for himself and Carol, for an anniversary present without her knowing, although Trevors arrival throws a monkey wrench into things. Throughout Trevors stay, he is openly hostile to them, his sarcasm and insults completely going over their heads. Peter, who is trying to decide what career path to choose, starts idolizing and emulating Trevor, which frequently gets him in trouble at the architect firm where Mike works. Jan makes up a pretend boyfriend named George Glass in order to make herself seem more popular. Greg and Marcia both want to move out of their shared rooms and when neither wants to back down, they have to share the attic together. When Trevors arrival suggests that Carol and Mike might not be married, Greg and Marcia believe that they are technically not related. This leads them to realize they are in love with each other, but try to hide it from one another throughout the movie. Eventually both cave in and they share a kiss at the end of the movie, but Marcia agrees to let Greg have the attic to himself, until he goes to college. Bobby and Cindy start a "Detective Agency" hunting down her missing doll and stumble upon Trevors true intentions. Trevor kidnaps Carol and takes her and the artifact to a buyer in Hawaii. The remaining Brady family travels to Hawaii to save her and foil his plans. Trevor is revealed to have been responsible for the boating accident that led to the disappearance of the buyers son Gilligan and Carols first husband, a professor. Jan meets a real boy named George Glass during the familys trip to Hawaii, and they become a couple. As Mike and Carol renew their vows in a ceremony held at their home, a genie named Jeannie appears, claiming to be Mikes wife.
A Very Brady Sequel
1996