MI6 agent James Bond is sent to Siberia to locate the body of 003 and recover a microchip originating from the Soviet Union. Upon his return, Q analyses the microchip and establishes that it is a copy of one designed to withstand an electromagnetic pulse and made by government contractor Zorin Industries. Bond visits Ascot Racecourse to observe the companys owner, Max Zorin. Zorins horse wins a race but proves hard to control. Sir Godfrey Tibbett, a racehorse trainer and MI6 agent, believes that Zorins horse was drugged, although tests proved negative. Through Tibbett, Bond meets with French private detective Achille Aubergine who informs Bond that Zorin is holding a horse sale later in the month. During their dinner at the Eiffel Tower, Aubergine is assassinated by Zorins bodyguard May Day, who subsequently escapes after being chased by Bond. Bond and Tibbett travel to Zorins estate for the horse sale. Bond is puzzled by a woman who rebuffs him and finds out that Zorin has written her a cheque for $5 million. At night, Bond and Tibbett break into Zorins laboratory and learn that he is implanting adrenaline-releasing devices in the horses. Zorin identifies Bond as an agent, has May Day assassinate Tibbett, and believes that his attempt to assassinate Bond has been successful. Afterwards, General Gogol of the KGB confronts Zorin for killing Bond without permission and reveals that Zorin was initially trained and financed by the KGB but has now gone rogue. Later, Zorin unveils to a group of investors his plan to destroy Silicon Valley which will give him—and the potential investors—a monopoly over the microchip industry. Bond goes to San Francisco where he learns from CIA agent Chuck Lee that Zorin could be the product of medical experimentation with steroids performed by a Nazi scientist who is now Zorins physician, Dr. Carl Mortner. Bond then investigates a nearby oil rig owned by Zorin and while there finds KGB agent Pola Ivanova recording Zorins conversation. Ivanovas partner Klolktoff is captured and killed while trying to place limpet mines on the rig, but Ivanova and Bond escape. They go to her place where Bond is able to steal the recording. Bond tracks down the woman that Zorin attempted to pay off, State Geologist Stacey Sutton, and discovers that Zorin is trying to purchase her familys oil business. The two travel to San Francisco City Hall to review Zorins submitted plan. However, Zorin is alerted to their presence and arrives together with May Day, who murders Chuck. When Bond and Sutton try to procure the plans, Zorin kills chief geologist W. G. Howe with Bonds gun and sets fire to the building to frame Bond for the murder and kill him and Sutton at the same time. Bond and Sutton survive the fire, but when the police prepare to arrest Bond for the murders of Howe and Chuck, he and Sutton escape in a fire truck. Bond and Sutton infiltrate Zorins mine and discover his plot to detonate explosives beneath the lakes along the Hayward and San Andreas faults, which would cause them to flood, causing the Silicon Valley area to be permanently submerged underwater. A larger bomb is also in the mine to destroy a "geological lock" that prevents the two faults from moving at the same time. Once the bombs are in place, Zorin and his security chief Scarpine flood the mines, killing the mine workers. Sutton escapes, while Bond and May Day are stranded in the mine. When May Day realizes that Zorin has abandoned her, she helps Bond remove the larger bomb by putting the device onto a handcar and pushing it out of the mine. When the handcars brakes block their attempt, May Day stays on it to make it roll clear of the mine; once outside, the bomb explodes, killing her. Zorin, who had escaped in his airship with Scarpine and Mortner, abducts Sutton, but Bond grabs hold of the airships mooring rope. Zorin tries to knock Bond off the rope, but Bond manages to moor the airship to the framework of the Golden Gate Bridge. Sutton attacks Zorin, and in the fracas, Mortner and Scarpine are temporarily knocked out. Sutton flees and joins Bond out on the bridge, but Zorin pursues them with an axe. The ensuing fight between Zorin and Bond culminates with Zorin falling to his death in the waters of San Francisco Bay. An enraged Mortner attacks Bond using sticks of dynamite, but Bond cuts the airship cable free, which causes Mortner to drop the dynamite in the cabin. The dynamite explodes, killing Mortner and Scarpine and destroying the airship. General Gogol awards Bond the Order of Lenin for foiling Zorins strategy. Afterwards, Bond and Sutton make love in the shower of the Sutton home.
A View to a Kill
1985