In 1991, Detective Matthew "Matt" Scudder (Liam Neeson) is in a car with his partner, who urges him to get help and expresses his concern that Scudder is not a reliable backup. Scudder then enters a bar and buys drinks with a coffee. Two armed men come in and kill the bartender, and Matt fatally shoots one assailant. He pursues and kills the second assailant, as well as their getaway driver. Eight years later, a drug addict named Peter Kristo (Boyd Holbrook) approaches Matt, now retired, and asks him to help his brother Kenny Kristo (Dan Stevens). Kenny is a drug trafficker whose wife was kidnapped and murdered. Kenny told Matt that after he delivered the ransom, the kidnappers directed him to a car containing his wifes dismembered body. Matt ultimately agrees to find the kidnappers. At the library, Matt researches similar killings, and finds victims named Marie Gotteskind and Leila Anderssen. He meets a homeless youth named TJ (Brian "Astro" Bradley), who helps with his search. Based on an article, Matt goes to a cemetery and speaks with the groundskeeper, Jonas Loogan (Olafur Darri Olafsson), who is upset that Matt forces him to remember finding bags containing parts of the dismembered Leila in the cemetery pond. Matt talks to Leilas fiancé Reuben (Mark Consuelos), who claims to have witnessed two men drag her into a van driven by a third person. Out the window, Matt sees Jonas exiting an apartment building. In a tool shed belonging to Jonas on the buildings roof, Matt finds photos of Reuben and Leila having sex. Jonas admits that he helped kidnap Leila. He had conspired to take Leila away from Reuben, who is a drug dealer, and help her stop using drugs. Instead, however, the other two men tortured and killed Leila. Jonas gives Matt one name (Ray) and jumps off the roof to his death. The two kidnappers, Ray (David Harbour) and Albert (Adam David Thompson), scout the home of Yuri Landau (Sebastian Roché), another drug trafficker. After realizing Landaus wife is bedridden, they prepare to leave for a new target. However, they see his 14-year-old daughter Lucia (Danielle Rose Russell), and Ray decides to kidnap her. Matt eventually learns that Marie was a DEA agent and realizes that the people who murdered her also got her files, which they have been using to choose their victims. Meanwhile, Matt grows closer to TJ, and encourages the boy to study to avoid a life of crime. During a conversation with TJ, Matt explains why he retired. During the shootout from the opening scene, one of his bullets killed a 7-year-old girl. He has been sober ever since. Kenny brings Matt to Landaus home, where the kidnappers call and arrange a drop. Matt, Kenny, Landau, Peter, and TJ (who earlier brought Matt his old gun) go to the cemetery. After a stand off, Lucia, with a finger hurt down to the bone, is returned to her father. When Albert realizes the ransom money is counterfeit, a shootout ensues. Peter is killed, and Matt wounds Ray. Albert and Ray escape in their van. After Albert and Ray arrive at their place, TJ sneaks out of their van, calls Matt, and tells him the address. Albert garrottes Ray in the basement, and goes back upstairs to find Matt, Kenny, and TJ. Matt overpowers and cuffs Albert. He leaves Albert for Kenny and calls a cab for TJ. While Kenny goes down in the basement, Albert frees himself. Matt goes back inside the house and finds Kennys corpse. Albert attacks Matt, and after a brief fight, Matt kills him. Matt returns home to find TJ sleeping on the couch and spots a drawing that TJ made of himself as a superhero. He sits down and falls asleep.
A Walk Among the Tombstones (film)
2014