In Beaufort, North Carolina, popular and rebellious teenager Landon Carter and his friends have been found of underage drinking on school grounds and seriously injuring another student during a prank gone wrong. The principal gives Landon the choice of being expelled or atoning for his actions by tutoring fellow students and participating in the school play. Choosing and doing the latter, Landon notices Jamie Sullivan, who he has known since kindergarten and is the local ministers daughter. He has seldom paid any attention to her, as she is labeled as an outsider and a geek because of her interest in astronomy. Landon has trouble learning his lines for the play, so Jamie, who is also in the play, agrees to help him on one condition: for him to not fall in love with her, and he laughs it off and dismisses it as a foolish idea. They begin practicing together at her house after school, but Landon remains wary of ruining his image by being friendly with an outsider like her. At one point he makes the insulting suggestion that they be "secret friends", and Jamies hurt but mature response embarrasses Landon. He then stops being dismissive of Jamie and treats her like a friend. They get to know each other and a spark of romance buds between them. On the opening night of the play, Jamie astounds Landon and the audience with her voice and beauty. When Jamie finishes singing towards the end, Landon kisses her, which is not a part of the play. Afterwards, Jamie avoids Landon until his friends play a cruel prank on her. In opposition to his friends, he protects her and she eventually warms up to him again. Landon asks Jamie on a date, but Jamie says her father will not let her date. Landon asks her father for permission, bringing up that he is looking for a chance at redemption with her and at life through her. Jamies father is initially hesitant but agrees. On their first date, Landon helps Jamie to fulfill her list of things she wants to achieve in life. On another date, where Jamie is silent and unfocused, she confesses she isnt making any plans for the future because she has leukemia and hasnt been responding to treatment. A desperate Landon asks for his fathers help in curing her, but is disappointed by his reply and takes a long drive home thinking about Jamie. Landons friends become aware of the tragedy looming, and give him their support. Jamies condition grows worse and gets sent to the hospital. While there, Jamie gives Landon a book that once belonged to her deceased mother and says that maybe God sent Landon to her to help her through the rough times and that Landon is her angel. Unbeknownst to Landon, Jamie is given private home care by Landons estranged father to relieve her fathers financial burden. Landon visits his dad, tearfully thanking him for his help, embracing and reuniting. Landon builds a telescope for Jamie to see a one-time comet in the springtime. Jamies father helps him get it finished in time and it is brought to her on the balcony where she gets a beautiful view of the comet. It is then that Landon asks her to marry him. Jamie tearfully accepts, and they get married in the church where her mother got married. They spend their last summer together filled with strong love. Jamies leukemia ends up killing her when summer ends. Four years later, Landon has finished college and been accepted into medical school. He visits Reverend Sullivan to return Jamie’s precious book. Landon apologizes to the Reverend for Jamie not witnessing a miracle, but the Reverend disagrees saying that in fact she did and that her miracle was Landon. Landon visits the docks contemplating the belief that although Jamie is dead, she is with him. It is then he understands love is like the wind; you cant see it, but you can feel it.
A Walk to Remember
2002