Dino Corelli marries Muffin Brenner and attends the reception at the Corelli mansion. Bedridden matriarch Nettie Sloan, mother of Dinos mother Regina Sloan Corelli, is being tended by disreputable Dr. Jules Meecham. While speaking with wedding planner Rita Billingsley, Nettie suddenly dies. Meecham informs Dinos father, Luigi Corelli, but Luigi is unable to tell his wife Regina because she is mentally unstable. Netties corpse remains in bed throughout the reception, while various attendees visit her room without realizing shes dead. By the time bossy daughter Toni finds out and plans a dramatic announcement, other family members are mostly unsurprised or not even too upset. The Brenners are a nouveau riche family from Louisville, Kentucky, where Muffins father, "Snooks", made millions in the trucking industry. The Corellis are an old money North Shore Chicago family. Due to rumors that Luigi has mob connections, virtually every invitee sent regrets. Only one guest (other than family members) attends. Nevertheless, Rita is determined to run the reception by the book, setting up a receiving line for the one guest and asking family members and staff to go down the line so it will not look empty. A series of disasters unfolds, including the display of an embarrassing nude portrait of the bride; caterer Ingrid Hellstrom becoming ill, then getting high and causing a disturbance after Meecham gives her a pill; and a tornado when the cake is to be cut, forcing everyone to find shelter in the cellar. Two guests arrive late: the groom and brides disgruntled exes, Tracy Farrell and Wilson Briggs, who bond over their mutual anger. Unsavory family drama unfolds. Regina is a drug addict. Her marriage was arranged by Nettie after Luigi met Regina while working as a waiter in Italy. Luigi was forced to change his name and be estranged from his Italian family for 22 years. His Italian-speaking brother unexpectedly shows up, and when Meecham reminds Luigi that Nettie is dead and can no longer impose the marriage conditions, Luigi is thrilled to see his long-lost brother. Reginas sister Clarice has a romance with her African-American butler, Randolph; other sister Toni is married to Mack Goddard, who falls in love at first sight with Tulip Brenner, mother of the bride, and tries to woo her. Snooks has a borderline incestuous attachment to his nearly mute daughter Buffy, the maid of honor, who speaks at the reception only once, to tell Dino she is pregnant and he is the father. Not wanting to be upstaged by the bride, Buffy disrobes in front of Muffins nude portrait. Dino confides to Wilson about Buffys pregnancy; Wilson tells Tracy, who vindictively spreads the news. Snooks confronts Dino, who admits to sleeping with Buffy but says she also slept with nearly every member of his military-school barracks. Snooks sister Marge Spar from New Jersey starts romancing the Corellis gardener, while bridesmaid Rosie Bean is unaware shy friend Shelby Munker is having an affair with Rosies husband Russell. Muffin and Dino prepare to leave for their honeymoon in a new car, the Corellis wedding gift. Muffin is rattled when Rita makes an unexpected pass at her. She then finds Dino in the shower with his groomsman, Reedley Roots, seemingly engaged in a gay sexual encounter. The newlyweds car is seen driving away and the families assume Dino and Muffin left without saying goodbye. Snooks drives his family back to their hotel. They see Dinos car wrecked and in flames, and rush back to the mansion to share the awful news. The families are grieving when Muffin and Dino appear from upstairs, having never left due to Dinos passing out drunk; Tracy and Wilson, out for revenge, swiped the car and died in the crash. Tulip declares the incident was God punishing her for sinful thoughts of having an affair with Mack. Luigi pays his respects to Nettie. He tells her corpse he kept his bargain for 22 years, and no one there knows who he really is. Now he will take his leave. He finds his brother in the bushes, making love with Buffy. Luigi and his brother happily drive away as a half-dressed Buffy waves goodbye.
A Wedding
1978