The year is 1958 and Ruth Cole is 4 years old. Although she is a loved child, her parents do not have a happy marriage. Her two older brothers died several years earlier in a tragic accident, and she is constantly reminded of their presence by the pictures of the boys childhood hanging on the walls of the Cole family home. Ruths father, Ted Cole, is a successful writer and illustrator of books for children. He hires Eddie OHare, a teenager who attends Phillips Exeter Academy, the same school as Ruths two late brothers, to work as his assistant for the summer. Eddie is unwittingly drawn into a plot orchestrated by Ted to drive his unhappy wife, Marion, to infidelity. Marion, unable to forget her dead sons, shows little affection to her daughter. Ted has always conducted extramarital affairs and would likely lose in a custody battle for Ruth. If Marion had an affair, especially with a teenager, it would strengthen the case for custody to be awarded to him. Ted picks Eddie specifically to tempt Marion because he bears a striking resemblance to his son Thomas, "the confident one". Eddie and Marions affair leads to Marions disappearance at the end of the summer. Later it is 1990 and Ruth is 36. She has become a popular, critically acclaimed novelist and is promoting her third and most recent novel, preparing to travel to Europe. She reconnects with Eddie, for the first time since she was 4 years old, when he introduces her at a reading she gives in New York before her European travels. Soon, having come up with the idea for her fourth novel, Ruth is researching in Amsterdams red light district and finds herself hiding in a closet to witness a prostitute (she has somewhat befriended) with a client. Instead she ends up witnessing the murder of the prostitute. She makes note of certain details of the murder and anonymously sends them to the police, which eventually leads to the murderer being captured. The detective who helps solve the murder becomes preoccupied with finding the "witness" long after Ruth returns to the United States. Ruth is now 41 and has a son, though her husband has died. This section covers Ruths own year of widowhood ("A Widow for One Year" is a literal description of Ruths situation as well as a reference to the first chapter of her third novel, "Not For Children"). The detective who had helped solve the murder case in Amsterdam has finally realized that Ruth is the "witness" due to details she used in her new novel, especially her description of a room identical to the murdered prostitutes. The detective, who had been a dear friend to the prostitute, is also a fan of Ruths work. Ruth learns that the murder was solved. She meets the detective on her next trip to Europe and they fall in love. The romance is quick and he agrees to follow Ruth to Vermont. They marry. Ruth and Eddie unexpectedly reunite with Marion in the end. More so than any other writer -- American or otherwise -- John Irvings fiction has presented writers as protagonists. Most especially, in A Widow For One Year (1998), and in The World According to Garp (1978), wherein John Irving actually provides examples of writing by various writers, including Ted Cole, Ruth Cole, Eddie O Hare, Marion Cole and T.S. Garp. And, of course, in Last Night in Twisted River (2009), wherein the examples of writing by Danny Angel and Danny Baciagalupo are part of the novels surprises.
A Widow for One Year
2004