Elmer approaches one of Bugs holes, puts down a carrot, and hides behind a tree. Bugs arm reaches out of the hole, feels around, and snatches the carrot. He reaches out again and finds Elmers double-barreled shotgun. His arm quickly pops back into the hole before returning to drop the eaten stub of Elmers carrot and apologetically caress the end of the barrel. Elmer shoves his gun into Bugs hole, and thus causes a struggle in which the barrel is bent into a bow. Elmer frantically digs into the hole while Bugs emerges from a nearby hole with another carrot in his hand, lifts Fudds hat, and raps the top of his head until Elmer notices; then chews his carrot and delivers his definitive line, "Whats up, Doc?". When Elmer replies that "hes hunting wabbits", Bugs chews his carrot and asks what a wabbit is; then teases Elmer by with every aspect of Fudds description until Elmer suspects that Bugs is a rabbit. Bugs confirms this, hides behind a tree, sneaks behind Elmer, covers his eyes, and asks "Guess who?". Elmer tries the names of contemporary screen beauties whose names exploited his accent, before he guesses the rabbit. Bugs responds "Hmm..... Could be!", kisses Elmer, and dives into a hole. Elmer sticks his head into the hole and gets another kiss from Bugs; whereafter he wipes his mouth and decides to set a trap. When Bugs puts a skunk in the trap, Fudd blindly grabs the skunk and carries it over to the watching Bugs to brag; and when Elmer sees his mistake, Bugs gives him a kiss on the nose, whereupon Fudd looks at the skunk, who winks and nudges Elmer. Fudd winces and gingerly sends the skunk on his way. Bugs then offers a free shot at himself; fakes an elaborate death; and plays dead, leaving Elmer miserable with remorse; but survives the shot and sneaks up behind the despairing Fudd, kicks him in his rear, shoves a cigar into his mouth, and tiptoes away, ballet-style. Finally, the frustrated Elmer walks away sobbing about "wabbits, cawwots, guns", etc. Bugs then begins to play his carrot like a fife, playing the tune The Girl I Left Behind Me, and marches with one stiff leg towards his rabbit hole (recalling The Spirit of 76).
A Wild Hare
1940