Diana Merrick (Greta Garbo), Neville (John Gilbert) and David (Johnny Mack Brown) were playmates as children, members of the rich British aristocracy. Diana and Neville are in love, but his father (Hobart Bosworth) opposes the match, disapproving the Merrick familys lifestyle. Neville is sent to Egypt for business purposes and to become wealthy. Diana, after waiting in vain for two years for Nevilles return, finally marries David, who is also in love with her and good friends with her brother Jeffry (Douglas Fairbanks Jr.). During their honeymoon to Paris and after the arrival of police inspectors, David commits suicide without an explanation. Diana does not explain the reasons behind her husbands action. Jeffry, who was deeply connected to David, blames his sister for his friends death; he falls deeper into alcohol as his sister starts a reckless life, seducing man after man. Years later, Neville returns to England to marry Constance (Dorothy Sebastian). Jeffry is now gravely ill, and Diana brings Dr. Trevelyan, a family friend, to his bedside and then leaves since Jeffry still refuses to see her. As she starts to drive away, she sees Neville who has followed her and Dr. Trevelyan in a cab. Diana and Neville go to his apartment, realize they are still in love, and spend that one night together. During the night Jeffry dies. Dr. Trevelyan goes to Nevilles apartment in the morning to give him the news and discovers that Diana has spent the night there. Three days later, Neville marries Constance. About nine months go by: Diana falls ill (in the script she is supposed to have suffered a miscarriage, but because of censorship, this couldnt be mentioned) and is visited by Neville. Diana professes her love for him before realizing Constance is in the room. The reason for Davids suicide is revealed: he was a thief, pursued by the police. Diana, realizing that her and Nevilles love will ruin Neville, tells him that his wife is pregnant and sends him away. Diana drives her car into a tree, in front of which she and Neville had fallen in love and sworn eternal fidelity.
A Woman of Affairs
1928