In a story told in a series of flashbacks, singer Marian Washburn (OHara) loses her voice. Aided by her pianist, Luke Jordan (Douglas), they promote a young singer, Susan Caldwell (Grahame). When Susan decides to quit the business, she is shot and seriously wounded in the Park Avenue apartment in New York that she and Marian share. When the police arrive, Marian confesses. Luke believes there must be more to this. He hires attorney Brook Matthews, (Victor Jory) who has a past relationship with Susan, and explains at length to Fowler, a police inspector, (Jay C. Flippen) how he and Marian came to know Susan. After an audition, Susan, an aspiring singer from Azusa, California, collapsed from starvation in front of them. Luke and Marian took her home and heard her voice. They decided to promote Susans career, taking her to France, where as a performer she became known as "Estrellita," but, behind their backs, briefly ran off with a soldier to Algiers. In the present, as Susan fights for her life in a hospital trying to survive the gunshot, the former soldier, Lee Crenshaw (Bill Williams), gets into a verbal confrontation with Luke while admitting that he had given her a Luger pistol from the war as a gift. Luke relates to Fowler and the inspectors amateur-sleuth wife, Mary, (Mary Philips) how on a boat home from France, they encountered Brook, the influential lawyer, just as they hoped they might. Brook had been known to sponsor young talent and, before long, he became Susans patron, with a personal relationship also developing between them. When she comes to in the hospital, a delirious Susan confirms the story Marian has told, that she was shot by Marian after their quarrel. Mary points out to her detective husband that Susan had just finished reading a newspaper account of the crime and could have been influenced by that. A piece of key evidence leads to the truth, that Susan possessed the gun and, when Marian became concerned that Susan might be contemplating suicide, they struggled over the weapon and it went off. Charges are dismissed and Marian returns to Luke.
A Woman's Secret
1949