A little girl named Nancy is playing dollhouse, and pretending to be the mother and has also dressed Tom, apparently the family pet, up to be her baby. She scolds Tom, who is hiding under some furniture. She drags Tom out by his tail and threatens to spank him. Tom is resentful over his treatment and feels humiliated. She carries him to the bassinet, tucks him in, and shoves a bottle of milk in his mouth. She warns him, under threat of more spanking, to stay in bed while she goes downtown to buy a new girdle. Indignant at first, Tom gets a taste of milk and quickly accepts his lot, cooing like a baby and drinking from his baby bottle. Jerry peeks from behind a dollhouse and sees Tom. Incredulous at first, Jerry proceeds to mock him by playing "Rock-a-bye Baby" on the phonograph and pretends to be a baby himself. Tom is furious and chases Jerry into the dollhouse and puts a sign that reads "Measles". Tom looks in the window to see that Jerry is in the bathtub, pretending he is bathing and brushing himself and humming the melody of "How About You?". Seeing Tom, he screams, hits him with the brush, runs downstairs to the bedroom and hides in a bed, causing a doll to turn up and shout "Mama!" Jerry uses the dolls clothes to disguise himself as a girl holding an umbrella, but his shirt falls off of him leaving his shoes on his feet and white pants that goes under it. Tom opens the dollhouse roof until Nancy returns and scolds him again. Tucking Tom back in bed, she threatens to feed him castor oil if he gets out again. Tom goes back to playing. Jerry emerges from the dollhouse and runs to the window to get the attention of Butch, Topsy, and Meathead (first seen in Sufferin Cats!), Toms three alley cat friends who are outside. When the trio see Tom, they begin to make fun of him. When Tom confronts the other cats, they continue to tease and humiliate him, tossing him like throwing a ball, causing him to land in a fishbowl, resulting in a wet diaper. They then capture him and change his dirty diaper with a fresh diaper, a safety pin, baby oil, baby powder, and a tight frilly pair of girls rubber pants over the new diaper and Topsy throws the fish from the fishbowl into his pants and they sing Carmen Mirandas "Mamãe Eu Quero" with Jerry joining in. Jerry laughs as the song goes on. But the whole song stops when Nancy returns and demands to know what is going on. The other cats flee as Nancy prepares to scold Tom. She then takes Tom to a high chair, forcing him to drink castor oil. He resists at first. Jerry then squeezes a nutcracker on Toms tail to make Tom yell in pain and therefore drink the spoonful of castor oil. Tom feels sick to his stomach and rushes to a windowsill to vomit. Jerry laughs at his misfortune, but the castor oil bottle, having turned over after Tom ran off the high chair he was sitting on, spills some of the castor oil out and Jerry ends up taking a dose of it himself, feels sick to his stomach as well and quickly joins Tom vomiting at the windowsill.
Baby Puss
1943