Kate Holbrook (Tina Fey) is a successful single businesswoman who has always put her career before her personal life. Now in her late thirties, she finally decides to have her own child, but her plans are dampened when she discovers she has a minuscule chance of becoming pregnant because her uterus is T-shaped. Also denied the chance to adopt, Kate hires an immature, obnoxious, South Philly woman named Angie Ostrowski (Amy Poehler) to become her surrogate mother. When Angie becomes pregnant, Kate prepares for motherhood in her own typically driven fashion—until her surrogate shows up at her door with no place to live. Their conflicting personalities put them at odds as Kate learns first-hand about balancing motherhood and career and also dates the owner of a local blended-juice cafe, Rob Ackerman (Greg Kinnear). Unknown to Kate, the in-vitro fertilization procedure Angie had did not succeed and she is feigning the pregnancy, hoping to ultimately run off with her payment. Eventually she starts to regret lying about not being pregnant, but she continually puts off confessing. When she gets an ultrasound, she discovers she is pregnant for real. Realizing the baby is her own (with her common-law husband Carl (Dax Shepard), from whom she is separated), Angie is forced to confess at Kates baby shower. When Kate explains to Angie that the pregnancy test was supposed to be taken two weeks after the procedure, and that the baby could still belong to her, a wedge is driven between the two women. A court hearing determines that the baby is Angies, and Angie makes an impassioned apology to Kate. As the women meet face-to-face after the proceedings, Angies water breaks and Kate rushes her to the hospital, then passes out during the birth. As she wakes up, the doctor supervising Angies pregnancy tells Kate that shes two months pregnant (the result of her relationship with her new boyfriend). After receiving the news, she visits Angie, who is holding her new baby daughter Stef, named for Gwen Stefani. Kate forgives Angie and the two become best friends, ultimately changing each other for the better. Angie and Kate raise their children and are in a sister-like relationship one year later at Stefs first-birthday party. It is revealed that Kate and Rob are very proud parents of a baby daughter and are engaged. Although he does not reunite with Angie, Carl stays close to his daughter and takes parenting classes. The final scene shows Angie and Kate sitting in front of a television set with their children, watching Tom and Jerry cartoons, a reference to an earlier line in the film.
Baby Mama (film)
2008