Bennington Austin "Bink" Cotwell IV has adoring parents Laraine (Lara Flynn Boyle) and Bennington (Matthew Glave), lives in a huge mansion in a suburb of Chicago, and is just about to appear in the social pages of the newspaper. Three klutzy would-be kidnappers: Edgar "Eddie" Mauser (Joe Mantegna), Norbert "Norby" LeBlaw (Joe Pantoliano), and Victor "Veeko" Riley (Brian Haley), the main antagonists, disguise themselves as the photographers from the paper and kidnap him. After the kidnapping, they have difficulty controlling him. In the trial of trying to get him to fall asleep, Norby does so reading Binks book, leaving him unattended. Norby later goes to sleep himself. Looking through it, he notices a bird on the page and then by the window. He follows it out and successfully gets away from his kidnappers, with Eddie falling off the building and into a garbage bin. The FBI arrives at the mansion, headed by Dale Grissom (Fred Dalton Thompson), where they try to piece together clues along with Binks parents and his loving nanny Gilbertine (Cynthia Nixon). Meanwhile, he, now outside on the ground and crawling about, finds another part of his book - the blue bus, which he then boards. The kidnappers realise he is missing and start chasing the bus in their van, but their efforts are in vain. Meanwhile, on the bus, Bink crawls into the bag of an obese lady, who gets off at her stop shortly afterwards. By the time the trio catches it, and realise Bink is not on board, they then realise that he crawled into the ladys bag and follow her. An altercation ensues after they insult her (when she insults them), and while they attempt their escape, Bink crawls up to a revolving door at the entrance to a department store and is forced inwards by its momentum. Crawling through the Marshall Fields department store, Bink is stopped by a worker who works for Mother Goose Corner, a nearby day care center, who believes he is another baby who escaped from there. He later escapes there and the store and eventually crawls into traffic. The kidnappers attempt to follow him but keep getting injured in the process as he makes his way to the city zoo. They are shocked to find him in the primate house with a gorilla. It shows a maternal side and does not injure him. The kidnappers try to retrieve him but it notices and hits Veekos hand, throws Norby into the air using a mop as a catapult, and hurls Eddie against the bars of the cage opposite its own. The kidnappers eventually corner and catch Bink in the zoos park, but are confronted by two friendly police officers, who have noticed that their vans engine is still running. During the conversation, Eddie hides Bink under his coat in his lap, but he reaches Eddies cigarette lighter, sets his crotch on fire, and sneaks off as soon as the officers are gone. Veeko extinguishes the fire by stomping repeatedly on Eddies groin. They follow Bink to a construction yard, but are still unable to catch him, with Veeko getting thrown off the building (after falling onto one of the construction workers lift) and into the back of a garbage truck, Norby falling into a vat of wet cement, and Eddie getting stranded on a crane after being drenched in glue. The sun sets as Bink leaves the construction yard. The kidnappers manage to escape (offscreen), but decide to give up and go home. Binks parents are notified of various sightings of him in the city and Gilbertine deduces that he has been following his favorite book, "Babys Day Out" (or "Boo-Boo", as Bink calls it) and will most likely head for the Old Soldiers Home next. Sure enough, they find him there, but on the way home, he begins to call out "Boo-Boo" toward the kidnappers flat. The FBI moves in on there and arrests Eddie, Norby, and Veeko demanding that they return his book first. Back home, Bink is put to bed by his parents. As they discuss having his picture taken by a normal photographer in the morning, he wakes up and gets ready to read another book, this one entitled "Babys Trip to China".
Baby's Day Out
1994