Two firefighters of Engine 17 of the Chicago Fire Department are brothers. Lt. Stephen "Bull" McCaffrey, the elder, is experienced, while Brian has labored under his brothers shadow his entire life. Brian returns to firefighting after a number of other careers falter, though Stephen has doubts that Brian is fit to be a firefighter. In 1971, Brian witnessed the death of their firefighting father, Captain Dennis McCaffrey, while accompanying him on a call. The longest serving of all the men at Engine 17, John "Axe" Adcox, served under the McCaffreys father, and was like an uncle to the boys when their father died. He attacks fires head on, but is concerned about Stephens unorthodox methods and disregard for safety procedures. Helen McCaffrey is Stephens estranged wife and the mother of their son, Sean. Helen has grown fearful of Stephens dedication to firefighting and the risks he takes. While they are still in love, she separated from Stephen to protect herself and Sean. Martin Swayzak is an alderman on the Chicago City Council. Swayzak hopes to be elected mayor, but has made budget cuts to the fire department. Many of the rank and file firemen believe the cuts are endangering firefighters lives. Fire Department Captain Donald "Shadow" Rimgale is a dedicated arson investigator and veteran firefighter. He is called in, because a number of recent fires resemble fires committed by pyromaniac Ronald Bartel, who has been imprisoned for years. Brian is reassigned as his assistant after a falling out with Stephen. Rimgale manipulates Bartels obsession with fire to ensure Bartels annual parole application is rejected. It is revealed during an investigation that Swayzak was paid off by contractors to shut down firehouses, so they could be converted into community centers, with the contractors receiving contracts for the construction. When Engine 17 answers a call in a high-rise, Stephen urges them to move in quickly to take out the fire despite Adcoxs advice to wait for back-up. Brians friend and fellow trainee, Tim Krizminski, opens a door, only to be met by a backdraft. His face is burned beyond recognition, but he barely survives. Adcox and Brian both blame Tims condition on Stephens reckless tactics. Rimgale and Brian go to Swayzaks home to confront him, but interrupt a masked man about to set the place alight. The latter attacks them with a flashlight, but is burned by an electrical socket on his back. Rimgale saves Brian and Swayzak from the house, but is injured in an explosion. In his hospital bed, Rimgale tells Brian to visit Ronald again. Ronald helps Brian realize that only a firefighter would be so careful as to not let the backdraft fires rage out of control. Brian suspects Stephen, but later spots a burn in the shape of an electrical socket on Adcoxs back, and reveals his suspicions to his brother just before an alarm. When Brian realizes Adcox has heard their exchange, he jumps aboard Truck 46 after borrowing some turnout gear. Stephen confronts Adcox about the deadly backdrafts during a multiple-alarm fire at a chemical plant. Adcox admits that he set the fires to kill associates of Swayzak, because Swayzak was benefiting from the deaths of firefighters. When an explosion destroys the catwalk they are on, Stephen grabs Adcoxs hand while hanging on to the remains of the catwalk. Stephen refuses Adcox advice to let go of him, but Stephen loses his grip on the catwalk. Adcox is killed, but Stephen, although seriously injured, survives. Stephen dies on the way to the hospital with Brian at his side, his final request being that Brian not reveal that Adcox was behind the fires until after Adcox receives a fitting burial. After Stephen and Adcoxs funeral, Brian and Rimgale, with the help of the police, interrupt Swayzak at a press conference. Rimgale questions Swayzak on a fake manpower study that led to the deaths of several firemen, including Stephen and Adcox. They also state that Swayzak engineered the downsizing of the Chicago Fire Department. This effectively destroys Swayzaks mayoral ambitions. Brian continues as a firefighter despite the loss of his father and brother.
Backdraft (film)
1991