Mick OBrien (Sean Penn) is a 16-year-old Irish-American hoodlum from Chicago. While most of Micks crimes involve snatching purses, vandalism, and getting into brawls, he aspires to bigger and meaner things, which leads him to attempt ripping off a Puerto Rican rival, Paco Moreno (Esai Morales). Everything goes wrong: Micks partner and best friend Carl (Alan Ruck) is killed, and Mick, while trying to escape the police, accidentally runs over and kills an eight-year-old boy who happens to be Pacos brother. Mick is sent to the Rainford Juvenile Correctional Facility rather than a state prison for adults. Most of the wardens and counselors seem to have lowered themselves to the role of zookeepers. The only exception is Ramon Herrera (Reni Santoni), a former gang member who talks tough to the inmates, but holds out hope for some of them, especially Mick. Micks cellmate is Barry Horowitz (Eric Gurry), a small, wiry, brainy Jewish kid who firebombed a bowling alley after some boys there severely beat him (for flirting with their girlfriends). Their cell block is dominated by a pair of brawny sadists named "Viking" Lofgren (Clancy Brown) and Warren "Tweety" Jerome (Robert Lee Rush), who take an immediate dislike to Mick. Mick puts up with them at first, but after he witnesses Tweety kill a small boy by throwing him off the catwalk (the small boy tried to stab Tweety in retaliation for raping him), he refuses to be intimidated by them. When Tweety and Viking go into Micks cell to attack him, Mick beats them bloody with a pillowcase full of soda cans. His victory over Viking and Tweety earns him the respect of the block and recognition as the new "barn boss". Meanwhile, to avenge his brothers death, Paco rapes Micks girlfriend J.C. (Ally Sheedy). After hearing of the rape, Mick is desperate to see her, so he and Horowitz escape the double perimeter fences during football practice through the use of a corrosive paste placed on the fences, making the fences weak enough to kick open. Mick escapes, but Horowitz falls on barbed wire and is then caught where a counselor beats him up for calling him names and escaping. Ramon believes that Mick had gone to J.C.s house, and soon picks him up. He then takes him on a trip to a maximum-security prison to show whats in store for him, should he continue down the path of crime. After Pacos arrest upon the police finding out about the rape on J.C., he is sentenced to the same dormitory at Rainford that Mick is in. The staff are fully aware of this potential danger, but no other reform school has a vacancy. Paco attempts to provoke Mick into a fight, but Mick avoids the confrontation as he has a chance of early release if he stays out of trouble. However, he also loses the respect of many of the inmates, who now want to see Paco put Mick away. Meanwhile, in an attempt to injure Paco for Mick, Horowitz plants fertilizer into a radio that he has placed in Paco and Vikings cell. When the charge explodes prematurely and only injures Viking, Horowitz is condemned to solitary confinement, a fate he fears more than any other. Eventually, Pacos transfer is arranged, so he plans his showdown with Mick for the night before. While Herrera was on night patrol, Paco fakes a ruptured appendix so Herrera comes to his aid. Herrera is assaulted, then caged in the office. The door into the cells is then barricaded, and the entire dormitory is aroused by the brawl. Eventually, Mick comes out on top, and the film ends with him very nearly killing Paco while being encouraged by the others to do it. However, resisting at the last second, he doesn´t do it. He then drags a beaten Paco in front of the caged Ramon and other detention officers and heads back to his cell, crying in remorse.
Bad Boys (1983 film)
1983