Eight years after the events of the first film, Miami Police Department (MPD) narcotics division detectives Marcus Burnett and Mike Lowrey are investigating the flow of ecstasy into the city, leading them to a Ku Klux Klan meeting and drug drop. The subsequent raid is botched due to weak radio signals, and in the firefight wherein several Klan members are either killed or injured, Mike accidentally shoots Marcus in the buttocks. The MPD arrests the surviving Klan members, who are revealed to be mere small-time buyers and not ecstasy distributors. Marcus questions if he wants to remain partners with Mike. Meanwhile, Mike is concealing a relationship with Marcus sister, Syd. Syd, unbeknownst to both Mike and Marcus, is an undercover operative with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), laundering money for Russian gangsters, who distribute ecstasy on behalf of Cuban drug lord Johnny Tapia. While transporting money between the Russians and Tapia, Syd is attacked by a Haitian gang trying to steal the money. Mike and Marcus inadvertently stumble into the action, and an intense firefight and car chase ensues, devastating the local area and enraging Police Captain Conrad Howard. Marcus and Mike discover Syds involvement, and Capt. Howard demands they find the supplier of ecstasy. Marcus and Mike confront the Haitian gang, killing several, and learn from the leader that a local mortuary is possibly being used by Tapia as a front for money laundering. The pair penetrate Tapias mansion disguised as pest exterminators, and discover that Tapia has eliminated some of his Russian distributors and has begun to court Syd, still undercover with the DEA, for distribution. The detectives locate the boat used for drug smuggling after forcing an arrested Klan member to its location, observe a morgue van make a rendezvous with it, and give chase unsuccessfully. Mike and Marcus infiltrate Tapias mortuary disguised as ambulance workers, and learn that he is using dead bodies to smuggle drugs and money. When the pair are almost discovered, Marcus accidentally ingests some of the ecstasy and Mike orders the disguised officers outside the building to crash an ambulance into it, creating a diversion. The mortuary and Tapias mansion are raided, the drugs and money intercepted by the U.S. Coast Guard. However, during the raid a vengeful Russian gangster, Alexei, violently storms the mansion on his own, intending to avenge his murdered friends. Alexei is shot by the police, while Tapia discovers Syd, kidnapping her and taking her to Cuba. With Syd held prisoner in Tapias compound and guarded by the Cuban military, the drug lord demands the return of his money in exchange for Syds life. Mike and Marcus, with a team of volunteers from S.W.A.T. and the DEA, assault Tapias compound, rescuing Syd, and destroying the building. The group flee, an infuriated Tapia in pursuit, which ends in a minefield outside U.S. Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, where Tapia holds Mike at gunpoint, with guards at the naval station threatening them. Syd distracts Tapia by killing one of his men and Marcus shoots Tapia, whose body falls onto a mine and explodes. Later, at the Burnett house, Marcus finally makes peace with Mike dating Syd, and the pair re-affirm their partnership.
Bad Boys II
2003