After his mother is killed by Man, Bambi stumbles upon his father, the Great Prince of the Forest, who takes him back to his den. The Great Prince asks Friend Owl to find a doe to raise Bambi, since his duties are to his herd, but Owl informs him that, because of the harsh winters, the does can barely feed themselves and their young. The Great Prince has no choice but to look after Bambi until the spring. Sometime later, the Great Prince allows Bambi to accompany his friends, Thumper and Flower, to see the Groundhog, whose shadow will foretell if winter will end soon. At the Groundhog ceremony, Bambi meets up with his crush Faline. The Groundhog is coaxed out of his hole, only to be scared back in by Ronno, an older fawn. Ronno tries to impress Faline with stories of his encounter with Man, and the whistles they use to imitate deer. When Bambi believes the story and says it is unbelievable, Ronno takes it as a literal insult and is about to fight Bambi when he is called away by his mother. While the other animals leave, Bambi falls asleep waiting for his father. He wakes up to what appears to be his mothers voice, which calls him into a meadow, but it turns out to be an ambush by Man. The Great Prince comes to Bambis rescue and both of them escape, but Bambi is yelled at for endangering himself. Days later, Bambi informs Thumper and Flower about his wish to impress his father. They decide to help Bambi learn how to be brave, but in doing so, they encounter a porcupine who sticks his quills into Bambis backside. Ronno and Faline, hearing the commotion, investigate; Bambi gets into a fight with Ronno when he sees him bothering Faline. Ronno chases him and Thumper through the forest until Bambi leaps to safety over a large ravine. The Great Prince, having seen the whole thing, is impressed by this feat. The next day, Thumper encourages Bambi to talk to the Great Prince, and the two connect. The Great Prince decides to allow Bambi to come along with him on his patrols, and as the days progress, the two get closer. One morning, however, Friend Owl approaches them and introduces them to Mena, a doe that he has selected as Bambis new mother. Bambi realizes the Great Prince had planned on sending him away and snaps at his father, while the Great Prince concludes that he is not meant to raise Bambi. Bambi sadly accepts the change. On the way to Menas den, Ronno shows up to taunt Bambi one last time. The two get into another fight that sets off one of Mans traps, which ensnares Mena and alerting Man. While Ronno flees, Bambi saves Mena by leading Mans dogs away from her, as his father arrives and works to set her free. The dogs chase Bambi through the forest, and his friends help him fend them off. Using the techniques the Great Prince taught him, Bambi evades all but one of the dogs. Cornered at the top of a rocky peak by the last dog, Bambi kicks it off a cliff, but falls off as well when it crumbles beneath him. His friends and his father all grieve him until Bambi reveals he is still alive, and he and the Great Prince reconcile. Sometime later, Thumper shares his version of the chase with the rest of his friends, and Bambi, whose antlers have just grown in, enjoys the tall tale with Faline. Ronno appears and vows vengeance on both of them, until he is bitten on the nose by a snapping turtle and runs off, screaming for his mother for help. Bambi eventually leaves to meet up with the Great Prince, who shows Bambi the field where he and Bambis mother met in childhood.
Bambi II
2006