Amantha Starr (Yvonne De Carlo) is the privileged daughter of a Kentucky plantation owner. However, after he dies, a shocking secret is revealed: unbeknownst to Amantha, her mother had been one of her fathers black slaves. Legally now property, she is taken by a slave trader to New Orleans to be sold. On the riverboat ride there, he makes it clear that he intends to sleep with her, but desists when she tries to hang herself; as a beautiful, cultured young woman who can pass for white, she is far too valuable to risk losing. Amantha is put up for auction. When she is callously inspected by a coarse potential buyer, she is rescued from further humiliation by Hamish Bond (Clark Gable), who outbids the cad, paying an exorbitant price for her. Expecting the worst, Amantha is surprised to be treated as a lady, not a slave, by her new owner. At his city mansion, she meets his key slaves, his housekeeper (and former lover) Michele (Carolle Drake) and his conflicted right-hand-man Rau-Ru (Sidney Poitier). Rau-Ru is grateful for the kindness, education and trust Hamish has bestowed on him, but hates him anyway, because his kindness is a more insidious method of keeping him enslaved than overt cruelty would be. Michele tries to help Amantha escape, but Rau-Ru has been watching her for Hamish and brings her back to the mansion. During a storm, Amantha and Hamish give in to their mutual passion. He takes his household to his plantation in the country, but arranges for her to continue on the riverboat to freedom in Cincinnati. At the last minute, she gets off the boat and runs to be with him. Their affair continues; when he goes away for a while, a neighbouring planter, Charles de Marigny (Patric Knowles) tries to rape her. Hearing her screams, Rau-Ru comes to her aid and knocks Charles unconscious. Knowing that he will certainly face execution for daring to attack a white man, Rau-Ru is left with no choice but to run away. As he does so, he blames Hamish for instilling him the pride and dignity that led him to stand up to Charles. Hamish tells Amantha that they cannot marry not because of her African blood but because he is unworthy of her: he was a slaver who joined with an evil local leader to destroy villages in Africa and enslave their inhabitants with atrocities. He does not say why he repented and became a planter kind to his slaves. She is repelled, and goes back to New Orleans to become a music teacher, passing for white. The Civil War has meanwhile been going on, Rau-Ru has run off and joined a black regiment in the Union Army, and the Union Army reaches New Orleans and occupies it. Union Lieutenant Ethan Sears (Efrem Zimbalist Jr.) rescues Amantha from his subordinates and courts her; Seth Parton (Rex Reason), now a Union Army captain but formerly an idealistic preacher who had known Amantha in Kentucky and knows her circumstances, takes her away from Sears at a dance and eventually propositions her and threatens her with exposure. All this causes her to affirm that Hamish is the only man she loves, and she flees New Orleans to get back to him. Meanwhile, Hamish has joined with another planter in burning their fields of cotton to keep them from the Union; the other man is caught and hanged, and Hamish flees to his other house in the swamp. Rau-Ru, now a Union sergeant, uses his knowledge from his days of slavery to track Hamish down and arrest him. Hamish then reveals that he stopped being a slaver because, in a terrible raid on a village, an African woman who had been his lover was killed and he fought his own accomplices to rescue her baby. That baby grew up to be Rau-Ru. Moved by this, Rau-Ru secretly gives him the keys to his handcuffs so that when two white Union soldiers take him away, he can overpower them and escape while Rau-Ru remains unsuspected. An old seafaring friend of Hamish is waiting in his ship to rescue him, and Rau-Ru guides Amantha to the shore so that Hamish and Amantha can escape together.
Band of Angels
1957