During summertime, Meribella, a magical kingdom, is going to have its five hundredth anniversary. Princess Tori and her younger sisters Meredith and Trevi are very busy, having to attend ceremonies and balls, and always be poised and proper. The princesses think it is hard work. Whenever they have the chance, they sneak away and play together. Before Meribellas five hundredth anniversary, the princesses have to greet royal visitors, who come to Meribella for the occasion. Tori wishes she could have an exciting, music-filled life like her favorite popstar, Keira. She wishes she could watch Keira performing near her palace. Keira, a world-famous and popular, but kind singer-songwriter, is on the guest list and is going to perform at the festival for the Meribellas five hundredth anniversary. Keira enjoys touring, greeting fans and having extravagant, spectacular concerts. However, it leaves her with no time to do what she was passionate about: writing songs. Keira thinks being a princess would be awesome. The next day, members of the royal court are invited to the palace in Meribella to meet the royal family. Duchess Amelia, Toris strict aunt, forbids Tori to watch Keiras concert when she was supposed to be greeting guests. When Keira arrives to the palace for the festival, she meets Tori. They instantly become friends, and their pet dogs Vanessa and Riff, too. Tori gives Keira a tour of the palace and so they began joking about trading places. Keira tells Tori how she longs to be a princess and wear a tiara like her. Tori gives Keira her tiara to try it on. Keira takes out her magic microphone and magically turns her outfit into a gown and Tori then shows her magical brush to Keira. Tori uses her magic hairbrush, so she uses it to transform her hair into a different hairstyle. They then realize that they look just alike. Aunt Amelia walks into the room and drags Keira, who is disguised as Tori back to the ballroom, where an embarrassing encounter takes place. Keira accidently trips and falls on Prince Liam of Stuffinsburg. They have an awkward conversation, smiling and blushing, after which Keira and Tori continue their tour. Tori convinces Keira to stay disguised as each other while she carries on giving Keira a tour of her palace. They enter a secret garden, where fairies tend to the plants. There is a diamond gardenia plant, which is used to pay for school and other things. Tori tells Keira that the Diamond Gardenia roots spread through the entire kingdom. Without it, Meribellas plants would die. The Diamond Gardenia makes the kingdom magical. Tori finds two tiny diamonds at the base of the Diamond Gardenia. The fairies put the diamonds on their necklaces, making them their friendship necklaces. Outside, Keiras manager, Crider, is tired of not being a star and comes to the palace to find valuables while getting a tour from Toris aunt. Toris aunt then notices that Tori has bought Keira to see the Diamond Gardenia and scolds her about bringing strangers into the secret area. Keiras manager, who has been secretly eavesdropping, plans to steal the diamond plant. Tori and Keira head back to Toris room after Keira almost got into trouble. Tori and Keira realize they want to continue to be each other and agree to remain as each other for one more day. Tori teaches Keira how to be a princess and Keira teaches Tori how to be a popstar. Tori, under the disguise of Keira, gives autographs to people and enjoys it, but later learns about a drought that she should have been aware about. Meanwhile, Keira, under the disguise of Tori, learns to behave like a princess. She also learns a new song while playing with Toris younger sisters, who discover Keiras true identity but promise to keep it secret. Later, Keira gets locked in Toris room by Toris aunt for not writing a commemoration speech, but Vanessa shows Keira a secret exit in the room through which she escapes. Meanwhile, Tori sings a song for the first time on stage. Later, Crider and Rupert, Criders assistant, uproot the Diamond Gardenia. The fairies try to stop them, but their efforts are not enough, as Rupert sprayed strawberry-scented spray all around Gardenia. Tori and Keira use their respective magic tools to change back into their true selves. Both stop the two, with the unexpected help from Keiram, and discover it is always best to be yourself. Crider tries to flee with the Gardenia using his airy coat but the girls imposed a heavy makeover on him using their respective magic tools, causing him to drop the plant and break it into pieces. Using the diamonds of their friendship necklaces, Tori and Keira plant a new Diamond Gardenia to revitalize the dead plants in the kingdom. Tori, now confident about her life, finally gives her speech. The two go back to the concert and end the film both as entertainers and as best friends.
Barbie: The Princess and the Popstar
2012