In San Francisco, homicide detective Nick Curran investigates the murder of retired rock star Johnny Boz, who has been stabbed with an ice pick during sex by a mysterious blonde woman. Nicks only suspect is Bozs bisexual girlfriend, crime novelist Catherine Tramell, who has written a novel that mirrors the crime. It is concluded that either Catherine is the murderer or someone is attempting to frame her. Catherine is uncooperative and taunting during the investigation, smoking and exposing herself during her interrogation. She has an alibi and passes a lie detector test. Nick discovers Catherine has a history of befriending murderers, including her girlfriend Roxy, who killed several young boys on impulse, and Hazel Dobkins, who killed her family. Nick, who accidentally shot two tourists while high on cocaine, attends counseling sessions with police psychologist Dr. Beth Garner, with whom he once had an affair. Nick discovers that Catherine is basing the protagonist of her latest book on him, wherein his character is murdered after falling for the wrong woman. Catherine has bribed Lt. Nielsen for information from Nicks psychiatric file; Beth gives it to Nielsen after he recommends Nicks termination. After Nick assaults Nielsen, he becomes a prime suspect when Nielsen is killed. Nick suspects Catherine, and when he joins in her behavior in front of his co-workers, he is put on leave. Nick and Catherine begin a torrid affair with the air of a cat-and-mouse game. Nick arrives at a club and witnesses Catherine doing coke with Roxy and another man. Nick and Catherine dance, make out, and are later observed having sex by Roxy. Catherine ties Nick to her bed with a white silk scarf the same way the blonde woman did with Boz, but does not kill him. Roxy, jealous of Nick, attempts to run him over with Catherines car, but dies when the car crashes. Catherine grieves Roxys death and tells Nick about a previous lesbian encounter at college that went awry. The girl became obsessed with her, causing Nick to believe that Catherine may not have killed Boz. Nick identifies the girl as Beth, who acknowledges the encounter, but claims it was Catherine who became obsessed. Nick discovers the final pages of Catherines book in which the fictional detective finds his partners body. Catherine breaks off their affair; Nick becomes upset and suspicious. Nick later meets his partner Gus, who has arranged to meet with Catherines college roommate at an office building to find out what really went on between Catherine and Beth. As Nick waits in the car, Gus is stabbed to death with an ice pick. Nick runs into the building, only to find Gus body in a manner similar to the scene described in the book. Beth, standing in the hallway, explains that she received a message to meet Gus. Nick suspects she murdered Gus and, believing she is reaching for a gun, shoots her, only to find that Beth was only fingering an ornament on her key chain. A search of the scene and Beths apartment turns up the evidence needed to identify her as the killer. Despite knowing Catherines apparent foreknowledge of Gus death, that she must actually have been the killer, and that she must have set up Beth, Nick tells no one. He returns to his apartment where Catherine meets him. She explains her reluctance to commit to him and the two have sex. As they discuss their future, an ice pick is revealed to be under the bed.
Basic Instinct
2006