Ruth Anne, nicknamed "Bone" Boatwright, is a young girl growing up in Greenville, South Carolina in the 1950s. Born out of wedlock to Anney, Bone lives with her mother and their extended family in a poor part of town. Anney loves Bone, but is still very much a child herself, tired out from working and needy for attention and adoration. Bone and Anney nearly always have to face the shame of the "ILLEGITIMATE" stamp on Bones birth certificate. When the county courthouse burns down, Anney is happy that a copy of Bones birth certificate no longer exists. After her kind, hardworking first husband, Lyle Parsons, the father of Bones half-sister, is killed in an automobile accident, Anney remarries a man named Glen Waddell, who seems attentive until Anney and Glens baby dies at birth. Glen first molests Bone while waiting in the car for the birth of his child. Frustrated by the loss of his eagerly-anticipated son, Anneys inability to have more children, and his own inability to manage his temper and maintain steady employment, Glen begins to physically and sexually abuse Bone regularly, beating her in the bathroom. Bone wakes her mother up in the middle of the night, barely able to walk because of the immense pain she is in. Anney takes her to the hospital, where the doctor berates Anney for beating the child so badly that her coccyx is broken. The only thing Bone says is Mama. Anney takes Bone to the car, leaving the hospital against the doctors wishes, and slaps Glens hand away as he tries to comfort the girl. Anney is saddened and angered by her new husbands behavior towards her child and takes Bone to her sister Almas house to recuperate. However, once Bone is better, Anney returns to Glen after he swears to never touch Bone again. While reading with her mama at the cafe, Anney asks Bone to go and stay with her Aunt Ruth since she is very sick. Ruth asks Bone about Glen and if he has ever hurt her. Bone says no and the two grow close listening to gospel music on the radio. After a visit from Dee Dee, Ruth dies of sickness. At Aunt Ruths funeral, Bones Aunt Raylene finds her in the bathroom falling over drunk after drinking too much alcohol and when she tries to take her to a bed, she discovers lashes on her legs and alerts the girls uncles, Earle, Wade, and Travis, and a man, who beat Glen unconscious. Bone is sent to live with her aunts, and eventually tells her mother that she is allowed to love Glen, but Bone will never come home to him again. Eventually, Glen comes around while the aunts are out, trying to force her to come back. When she fights back, he punches, and then rapes her. Anney discovers the rape and retaliates by breaking a bottle over Glens head, causing him to bleed. She pulls and kicks him off of Bone, screams at him, then carries her out of the house to her car away from him. Glen stumbles out of the house after Anney, screaming his apologies and saying he cant live without her. Anney yells at him to stay away and puts Bone into her car. When Glen tries to comfort her, she pushes him away, gets into her car, starts it and tries to drive away, starting to abandon him. Glen then leans against the car door and repeatedly smashes his head against it, screaming for Anney to kill him. Instead, she strokes his head in forgiveness, believing he will never hurt Bone again. Ultimately, Anney returns to Glen. Moments after, Bone is taken to the hospital by Aunt Raylene. When a cop attempts to question her about who brutalized her, she still refuses to reveal that it was Glen and calls out for her Momma who is nowhere to be found. In the end, Bone is allowed to stay with her Aunt Raylene and Uncle Earle, far away from the reach of those who would harm her. Her mother visits one final time to deliver to her the copy of her birth certificate without the mark of "ILLEGITIMATE", and apologizes for what happened, before driving away to rejoin Glen. Bone remains with her Aunt Raylene, and with this final, tearful goodbye, she cries for her mothers sacrifice and for the freedom she has at last achieved.
Bastard Out of Carolina (film)
1996