The US Army is conducting a fighting retreat. A high bridge spans a ravine on the Bataan Peninsula. After the army and some civilians cross, a group of eleven hastily assembled soldiers from different units is assigned to blow it up and delay Japanese rebuilding efforts as long as possible. They dig in on a hillside, setting up heavy machine guns in sandbag fortifications. They succeed in blowing up the bridge, but their commander, Captain Henry Lassiter, is killed by a sniper, leaving Dane in charge. One by one, the defenders are killed, while Ramirez succumbs to Malaria. Despite this, the outnumbered soldiers doggedly hold their position. Malloy shoots down a Japanese aircraft with his Tommy gun before being killed; Dane and Todd creep up, undetected, on the partially rebuilt bridge and throw Mk 2 hand grenades, blowing it up. There is also tension between Dane and Todd. Neither outright acknowledge a shared past but both realize they recognize each other, Dane suspecting that Todd is someone that he once knew as "Danny Burns". Army Air Corps pilot Lieutenant Steve Bentley (George Murphy) and his Filipino mechanic, Corporal Juan Katigbak (Roque Espiritu), work frantically to repair a Beechcraft C-43 Traveler aircraft. They succeed, but Katigbak is killed and Bentley is mortally wounded before taking off in the airplane. Before he dies, he has explosives loaded aboard, and he then deliberately crashes the C-43 into the bridges foundation, destroying it for a third time. The remaining soldiers repel a massive frontal assault, inflicting heavy losses on the attacking Japanese, ultimately fighting hand-to-hand with bayonets fixed on their M1903 Springfield rifles. Epps and Feingold are killed. Only Dane, Todd, and a wounded Purckett are left alive. Purckett is shot and Todd stabbed through the back by a Japanese soldier who had only feigned being dead. Before he dies, Todd admits to Dane their shared past and identifies himself as being "Danny Burns". Now alone, Dane stoically digs his own marked grave beside those of his fallen comrades, now waiting to die in it. The Japanese troops crawl through the ground fog close to his position before opening fire and charging. Dane fires back, killing them all, yelling, "Were still here ... well always be here, why dont you come and get us"! When his Tommy gun runs out of ammo, he switches to the larger M1917 Browning machine gun. Dane continuously fires it directly into the camera as the films end card states that the sacrifice of the defenders of Bataan helped slow down the Japanese, making possible Americas later victories in the Pacific War.
Bataan (film)
1943