Eighteen months after the battle between Superman and General Zod in Metropolis, Superman has become a controversial figure. Billionaire Bruce Wayne, who has operated in Gotham City as the vigilante Batman for two decades, sees Superman as an existential threat to humanity. After learning of Batmans form of justice, Clark Kent (Supermans civilian identity) seeks to expose him via Daily Planet articles. Wayne learns that Russian weapon trafficker Anatoli Knyazev has been contacting LexCorp mogul Lex Luthor. Meanwhile, Luthor unsuccessfully tries to persuade Senator June Finch to allow him to import kryptonite retrieved from the Indian Ocean following Zods terraforming attempt, claiming he wants to maintain it as a "deterrent" against future Kryptonian threats. He instead makes alternative plans with Finchs subordinate and gains access to Zods body and the Kryptonian scout ship. Bruce attends a gala at LexCorp to steal encrypted data from the companys mainframe, where he also encounters with Clark, but has it taken from him by an antiquities dealer named Diana Prince; she eventually returns it to Bruce. While decrypting the drive, Bruce dreams of a post-apocalyptic world, where he leads a group of rebels against a fascist Superman. He is awoken from his vision by an unidentified person, appearing through a portal, who warns him of Lois Lanes crucial role in the future, and urges him to find "the others" before vanishing. Wayne later discovers that Luthor is also investigating metahumans. One of them is Prince herself, who is shown in a photo taken during World War I. Wayne admits to Alfred Pennyworth that he plans to steal the kryptonite to weaponize it, should it become necessary to fight Superman. At a congressional hearing, as Finch questions Superman on the validity of his actions, a bomb goes off and kills everyone present but Superman. Believing he should have detected the bomb, and frustrated by his failure to save them, Superman goes into self-imposed exile. Batman breaks into LexCorp and steals the kryptonite, planning to use it to battle Superman by building a powered exoskeleton, creating a kryptonite grenade launcher, and a kryptonite-tipped spear. Meanwhile, Luthor enters the Kryptonian ship and accesses a vast technology database accumulated from over 100,000 worlds. Later, Luthor kidnaps Lois and Martha Kent, Clarks adoptive mother, to bring Superman out of exile. He reveals to him that he manipulated Superman and Batman by fueling their distrust for each other. Luthor demands that Superman kill Batman in exchange for Marthas life. Superman tries to explain the situation to Batman, but instead Batman fights Superman and eventually subdues him. It is revealed that Batman and Superman are two halves of the same godlike entity, destined to fight and merge together. Batmans fury allows his more pessimistic tendencies and personality to dominate in the resulting combined being, which calls itself "Dark Side" (Darkseid). Darkseid declares he will purge this sinful world, starting with those who kidnapped Martha. Luthor, realizing that his plan has badly gone awry, executes his backup plan, requesting aid from Diana Prince to stop the rampaging Darkseid from destroying Luthor and humanity. Luthor and Prince join forces to fight the creature. When they are easily outmatched, Prince realizes that the only chance is to appeal to Supermans benevolent nature - the "Light Side" of the reborn god. Confused by her appeals, and after he sees that Martha Kent is safe, the Superman-Batman hybrid flies off to deep space, leaving humanity to its own devices. A memorial is held for Superman in Metropolis. Clark is also declared dead, with various friends and family members including Diana Prince attending for him in Smallville. Martha gives an envelope to Lois, which contains an engagement ring from Clark. After the funeral, Luthor expresses his regrets to Diana about how he overestimated Superman. Luthor reveals to her that he plans to form a team of metahumans, starting with those from his own files, to help protect the world in Supermans absence. After they leave, the dirt atop Clarks coffin levitates.
Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice
2016