Told as a flashback to the early 21st century with a wraparound sequence narrated by the orangutan Lawgiver (John Huston) in "North America - 2670 A.D.", this sequel follows the ape leader Caesar (Roddy McDowall) years after a global nuclear war has destroyed civilization. Now with a family consisting of himself, his mate Lisa (Natalie Trundy), and their son Cornelius (Bobby Porter), Caesar creates a new society while trying to cultivate peace between the apes and the surviving humans. But he finds opposition in a gorilla named Aldo (Claude Akins) who prefers to corral the humans rather have them freely roam Ape City while doing menial labor. After defusing a despite of Aldos group attacking their human teacher for unintentionally breaking one of their laws (humans being forbidden from saying "No" to apes), Caesar regrets having never known his parents while wondering if they could give him advice on how to better things. Caesars human assistant MacDonald (Austin Stoker), the younger brother of Mr. MacDonald, reveals to Caesar that his brother mentioned to him of the archived footage of Cornelius and Zira within the underground ruins of New York, now radioactive and known as the Forbidden City. After obtaining a geiger counter and weapons from the armory, Caesar travels with MacDonald and orangutan Virgil (Paul Williams) to the Forbidden City and sneak their way into the archives. But it is revealed that mutated and radiation-scarred humans are still living within the city and under the command of Governor Kolp (Severn Darden), a former inspector under the previous governor who was assigned with Caesars capture and attempted execution. Caesar and his party view the recordings of his parents, learning about the future and Earths eventual destruction before they are forced to flee when Kolps soldiers attempt to capture and then kill them. Fearing the mutants may attack Ape City, Caesar assembles a meeting to report his discoveries at the Forbidden City. When MacDonald and a select group of humans are called to the meeting at Caesars request, Aldo objects and he leads the gorillas away. But the group is unaware that a few of Kolps men followed then. Once the scouts return to the Forbidden City, believing that Caesar is planning to finish him and his people off, Kolp stubbornly declares war on Ape City despite his assistant Méndez (Paul Stevens) attempting to have him see reason. That night, furious of Caesar wanting them to peacefully co-exist with humans, Aldo plots a coup détat in order for the gorillas to take control. Cornelius overhears this while trying to catch his escaped pet squirrel in a nearby tree, critically wounded when Aldo spots the young chimpanzee and hacks the tree branch he is on down. The next day, after a gorilla scouting pair are attacked by Kolps men in retaliation for the death one of their scouts, Aldo takes advantage of a grieving Caesars absence to have all humans corralled while looting the armory much to Virgils dismay. Cornelius eventually dies from his wounds, leaving a devastated Caesar with a revelation that he was not hurt by humans. It is at that moment that Kolps ragtag force launches their attack against Ape City, Caesar joining the fray as he orders the defenders to fall back as they are disadvantaged. When Kolp finds Caesar lying among dozens of apes, he expresses his intention to personally kill him. But it turned out to be a trap as Caesar calls all the apes feigning death or hiding to launch a counter-attack that captures most of the mutants. Kolp and his remaining forces escape the city, only to be slaughtered by Aldos troops once out in the open. After the battle, Aldo confronts Caesar about releasing the caroled humans and orders the gorillas to kill them. When Caesar shields the humans and Aldo threatens him to move aside, MacDonald having told him of the circumstances of Corneliuss fall, Vergil reveals Aldos role in Cornelius death and that he broke their communitys most sacred law ("Ape shall never kill ape"). An infuriated Caesar pursues Aldo up a large tree, their confrontation resulting in Aldo falling to his death. With Caesar realizing that apes are no different to their former slave-owners, he agrees to MacDonalds request for humans to be treated as equals so they can all coexist with one another as a new society. They store their guns back in the armory: Caesar and Virgil reluctantly explaining to the overseer that they will still need them for future conflicts and can only wait for the day when they dont need their weapons anymore. The Lawgiver finishes his wrap-around narration, saying that it has now been over 600 years since Caesars death. His audience is revealed to be a group of young humans and apes, the Lawgiver noting that their society still waits for a day when their world will not need weapons, but at least now, "we wait with hope". When asked by a human child "Who knows the future?", the Lawgiver replies "Perhaps only the dead." A close-up of a statue of Caesar shows a single tear falling from one eye.
Battle for the Planet of the Apes
1973