In 2005, the Gliese system is discovered to have a potentially habitable planet and a transmission is sent from Hawaii by NASA. Meanwhile, Alex Hopper is arrested while attempting to impress Sam Shane. His brother, naval officer Stone, forces Alex to join the U.S. Navy in order to improve his life. In 2012, Alex and Sam are in a relationship and Alex serves as a lieutenant aboard the USS John Paul Jones, while Stone commands the USS Sampson. During the 2012 RIMPAC exercise, five alien spacecraft arrive. Their communications ship crashes in Hong Kong while the other four land in the waters off Hawaii. Sampson, John Paul Jones, and the JMSDF Myōkō investigate and discover a floating structure, which generates a force field that encloses the Hawaiian Islands and separates the ships from the fleet. Three alien warships surface and begin a confrontation. In the ensuing engagement both the Sampson and the Myōkō are destroyed, resulting in Stones death, while the command crew of the John Paul Jones are killed. Alex assumes command as the ranking officer. They recover the survivors from Myōkō, including Captain Nagata. The alien structure launches drones towards Hawaii, which attack and cause heavy damage. On Oahu, Sam, a physical therapist, is accompanying retired U.S. Army Colonel and double amputee Mick Canales on a mountain hike. There they encounter scientist Cal Zapata who informs them the aliens have taken over a communications array, planning to use it to re-establish communications with their home planet. Aboard the John Paul Jones, naval personnel capture a semiconscious alien. The alien forms a telepathic link with Alex, showing him that they have successfully invaded and conquered other planets. Other aliens arrive to rescue their captured comrade, but are prevented from sabotaging the ship. Examination of the captured aliens helmet reveals the aliens are sensitive to sunlight. Ashore, Sam and Mick force Zapata to recover his spectrum analyzer from the aliens. They use it to radio the John Paul Jones and inform them the aliens will be able to contact their planet in four hours. With radar disabled, Captain Nagata suggests using NOAAs tsunami warning buoys around Hawaii to track the alien warships. This allows the John Paul Jones to destroy two of them but the third evades their fire. At dawn, they lure the warship eastwards as Alex and Nagata shoot out its bridge windows, blinding its crew and allowing the John Paul Jones to destroy the alien ship. The John Paul Jones is then sunk by alien drones as the crew escape. The survivors return to Pearl Harbor and commandeer the USS Missouri, a decommissioned battleship. With the aid of the retired veterans preserving her, the Missouri is restored to battle readiness and confronts the alien structure, revealed to be a giant vessel. In the ensuing battle, the Missouri severely damages its quarry and disables the force field. Meanwhile, Sam, Mick and Cal attempt to stall the aliens at the communications array. As the mothership rallies, Alex uses their last shell to destroy the communications array. Fighters from the RIMPAC fleet suddenly arrive and destroy the drones and the mothership, eliminating the alien threat. A ceremony is held to honor the military personnel, where Alex is promoted to lieutenant commander and presented with both a Silver Star and his brothers posthumous Navy Cross. After the ceremony, Alex asks Sams father Admiral Terrance Shane for her hand in marriage. The admiral initially refuses, but then invites Alex to lunch to discuss the matter, referencing how Alex and Sam met. In a post-credits scene, three teenagers and a handyman in Scotland discover a crashed alien pod. When they open it, an alien hand reaches out, and they run off in terror.
Battleship (film)
2012