The story begins with Daffy Duck in the role of Jack summing up recent events: Frustrated with having traded his cow for the three beans, Daffy tosses them away and they land in Bugs Bunnys rabbit hole. A beanstalk erupts shortly after, and Daffy decides to climb it for the sake of the cartoon ("Well, Id better get to work climbing that thing, or we wont have any picture"). On the way up, he comes across Bugs, who is asleep in his bed which is stuck in the beanstalk. Bugs awakens and sees Daffy, but Daffy kicks him away. Realizing which story is unfolding before him, Bugs decides that there will be a rabbit in this version and begins climbing after Daffy. Meanwhile, Daffy reaches the top of the beanstalk, excited about stealing the fortune that the giants castle holds, until he meets the giant himself - Elmer Fudd. Daffys excitement turns into panic and he runs from the giant Elmer just as Bugs reaches the top. As Elmer closes in on the duo, Bugs reminds Elmer that he is supposed to go after Jack instead of a rabbit and points out that Daffy is Jack. Daffy frantically tries to pass this off as a lie, declaring his name to be Aloysius, and that Bugs is Jack. As the two start to argue about who the real Jack is, Elmer decides to "open up with a pair of Jacks" and captures both of them. Inside the castle, Elmer places Bugs and Daffy under a glass cake dome and prepares to grind their bones with a peppercorn grinder to make his bread. However, they manage to escape because Bugs has an ACME glass cutter in his possession. Elmer then chases the two around his castle as they are trying to get away. The chase continues until Bugs manages to trip Elmer, knocking him unconscious. Bugs wants to leave the place, but greedy Daffy decides to stay so he can steal "those solid gold goodies" from the giant. As Bugs runs towards the beanstalk, he comes across Elmers huge carrot garden, with carrots as big as houses and ready to be eaten. Later that night, a very full Bugs rests under one of the giant carrots he has been eating and wonders what has become of Daffy, who is revealed to be trapped inside Elmers pocket watch, acting like the minute and hour hands, while constantly making tick-tock sounds ("Eh...its a living").
Beanstalk Bunny
1955