Beauty is the youngest daughter of an elderly merchant, playing the role of the family caretaker. Her father has received news that his ships carrying valuable cargo have been destroyed at sea. Now in financial difficulties, the family is forced to move to sell their property and move the countryside, much to the dismay of Beautys spoiled sisters, Alicia and Pauline. However, Beauty and her brothers, Robert and Nathan, are able to adapt to the change. News arrives that one of the ships survived and has arrived at the city harbor. Beautys father is to receive the shipment; Alicia and Pauline ask for expensive gifts, but Beauty asks for small rose. Beautys father goes, but the ships contents are damaged beyond repair and he has to leave empty-handed. On the journey home, he loses his way and finds a mysterious castle. Inside the castle, a meal has been laid out for him. The old man eats, and afterward finds a bed to spend the night. In the morning, the gentleman thanks his invisible host and prepares to leave. Remembering Beautys request, he plucks a rose from the garden to bring back to her. A ferocious beast appears, enraged with the man for destroying what he loves most in the world. He threatens to kill him, until the gentleman explains about Beautys request. The beast commands the man to return home and tell Beauty to come and die in his place. Beautys father goes home and tells his children about his encounter with the beast. Beauty insists on taking her fathers place, and the pair travel to the castle together. The beast offers Beautys father jewels as compensation, but Beautys father angrily declines. Father and daughter part ways sadly, and the beast is momentarily touched by their affection. That night, Beauty waits willingly for her death. To her surprise, she is given food by Clara, a maid who is capable of doing magic. The beast tells Beauty that he has decided to spare her life but she cannot leave the castle. Beauty is given a comfortable room and grand clothes to wear. When she sleeps, Beauty is visited by a sinister fairy who tells her to beware of the apparent kindness of the beast. Time passes and the friendship between Beauty and the beast grows deeper. One night after dinner, the beast asks Beauty if she should like to be his wife. Beauty gently turns him down, but the beast insists that he will grant her anything in the world to please her. Beauty asks if she will be allowed to return her home and see her family for a week. The beast agrees, but warns that if she stays away for longer than a week, he will die of sorrow. The beast gives her a magic ring that she need only twist to be taken to her family. That night Beauty twists the ring and goes to bed. She dreams of the sinister fairy again, who tells her that this is her chance and that she must let the beast die for her own sake. Beauty wakes up, finding the magic ring had worked and transported her to a fine city mansion that is her familys new home. Everyone is glad to see Beauty again, with the exception of Alicia and Pauline, who fear suitors will wish to marry her instead of them. The week passes quickly. Beauty is about to return but is stopped by a tearful Alicia and Pauline. Beauty misunderstands her sisters attention and agrees to stay one more day, but is surprised by the sudden arrival of Clara, the beasts servant, who is there to remind Beauty of the promise she made. Beauty and Clara return to the castle, which is now in a run-down state. Beauty find the beast, who manages to give her a forgiving last farewell before dying. Beauty weeps, wishing that she could tell the beast that she loves him and that if he returned to her, she would marry him. The beast awakens, his body disappearing to reveal a handsome prince. An evil fairy, the same one as in Beautys dreams, had cast a spell upon the prince, so that he would only return to normal if a woman of good heart agreed to marry him. Beauty and the prince live happily ever after.
Beauty and the Beast (1992 film)
1992