Skeeter Bronson (Adam Sandler) is a hotel maintenance man who is promised as a child by his father Marty (Jonathan Pryce) to be the manager of the family hotel, but later it is bought by hotel chain Nottingham Hotels. 25 years later, the new manager Barry Nottingham (Richard Griffiths) plans to build a new hotel and appoints another man, the snotty Kendall Duncan (Guy Pearce) to become the manager, simply because he is dating his daughter, Violet (Teresa Palmer). Skeeters sister Wendy (Courteney Cox) asks him to watch her kids (who own a guinea pig with huge eyes named Bugsy), because the school at which she is the principal is being closed and she is looking for a job in Arizona. The first night, Skeeter tells a bedtime story taking place in medieval times (with him as the main character; in this case, an underdog peasant named Sir Fix-A-Lot), with some additions from her kids. The next day, the entire story miraculously comes true. Nottingham gives Skeeter a shot at the manager position when he says his new hotel theme was taken by Hard Rock Hotel and on his way home (though it actually came from a truck crash) it rains gumballs on top of him, all from the story. The next night, at the hotel, he tells another story set in the Old West, and when he waits for it to come true, a man dressed in Indian attire steals his wallet. He saves Violet from an obnoxious paparazzi and gets kicked by a dwarf. He also spots a Ferrari car, and thought he was being offered it for free (like in the story) but Violet drives away with it (implying that it was actually her car). The night after that, out on a campfire near the hotel, he tells them about a Greek chariot-riding stuntman, and he ends up falling for his sisters friend and fellow colleague Jill (Keri Russell). On the last night with the kids, he tells them about a space fight in which he triumphs over Kendall. After he wins the gig of manager (despite his presentation being flawed due to a bee stinging his tongue), he makes the discovery from Kendall that the new Nottingham Hotel will be at the location of the closing school. After being dismissed by Nottingham (for inadvertently destroying his birthday cake), which turned out to be the connection to the ending of the space story (at which he originally thought he would combust), he gets the hotel moved to Santa Monica, and then with Jill is able to avert the demolition, saving the school and his nephew and niece, while getting his wallet and money back from the same man that stole it from him earlier. Sometime later, he marries Jill and establishes a motel named after his late father. Kendall and his accomplice Aspen (Lucy Lawless) are demoted to the motels waiting staff. Violet marries Skeeters best friend Mickey (Russell Brand), giving him control of the Nottingham Empire, becoming the ninth richest man alive. In the meantime, Nottingham quits hotel management to become a school nurse and newlywed Skeeter and Jill have a baby, while Bugsy the guinea pig marries too, and has a bunch of babies.
Bedtime Stories (film)
2008