Lawrence Jameson (David Niven) is a refined, elegant con artist living in the French Riviera town of Beaumont-sur-Mer. He masquerades frequently as the deposed prince of a small European country, seducing wealthy women into donating money and jewellery to his revolutionary "cause". Meanwhile, Corporal Freddy Benson (Marlon Brando) is a small-time operator in the US Army stationed in Germany, conning his way into the hearts (and wallets) of young women with sob stories about his sick grandmother. His attempt at seducing the daughter of a local burgomaster backfires when her father arrives home early, and Freddy is nearly arrested until he blackmails his colonel into giving him an early discharge. On a train to Beaumont-Sur-Mer, Freddy cockily displays his skill as a conman to Lawrence, whom he believes to be a henpecked husband. Lawrence, believing Freddys "poaching" will endanger his own activities, attempts to distract him into leaving town, then when that fails, arranges for his arrest. Lawrence has him released and buys him a plane ticket to America. Unfortunately, one of Lawrences former conquests (Dody Goodman) is on the plane and mistakes Freddy for a revolutionary in the employ of "The Prince". Freddy returns and blackmails Lawrence into taking him on as an apprentice. Freddy is taught to play The Princes mentally challenged brother Ruprecht, a tactic to scare women away from trying to marry the prince. They are successful, but quarrel when Lawrence refuses to pay Freddy until he can acquire the culture necessary for Lawrences style of con. Freddy decides to set out on his own, but since Lawrence believes that there is not enough room in Beaumont-Sur-Mer for both of them, the two make a bet. The first one to steal $25,000 from a selected mark will stay. They choose Janet Walker (Shirley Jones), a naive American heiress, as their target. Freddy poses as a soldier who has suffered psychosomatic paralysis. He wins Janets affections with a sad story about being betrayed by his first love and convinces her that he needs $25,000 to pay for treatment by a celebrated Swiss psychiatrist, Dr. Emile Shauffhausen. Lawrence then masquerades as Dr. Shauffhausen, agreeing to treat Freddys "condition" with the stipulation that Janet pay the $25,000 directly to him. The two battle for Janets affections, ruthlessly sabotaging each other, with Lawrence coming out on top, more often than not. Lawrence discovers that Janet is not wealthy after all, but merely a contest winner, and that she intends to sell off the remainder of her winnings to pay for Freddys treatment. Since he only preys on wealthy women who can afford it, Lawrence attempts to call off the bet. Freddy refuses, but suggests that they change the bet: the first to get her into bed will win. Lawrence refuses to try to seduce Janet, but bets that Freddy will fail to do so. Freddy has Lawrence kidnapped by some paratroopers he fools into believing Lawrence is trying to steal his girl. He then convinces Janet of his love by "conquering" his paralysis and walking. Lawrence has been present the whole time, and he now declares that Freddy is cured. Lawrence explains that he told the soldiers he had been a British Army paratrooper during the war, then filled them in on Freddys lies. The angry soldiers keep Freddy occupied until Lawrence puts Janet on a train. However, just as the train is departing, Janet receives a telegram stating that Dr. Emil Shauffausen has been dead for over 40 years. Confused and distraught, she returns to her hotel room, where she finds Freddy, who apparently succeeds in seducing her. Lawrence gracefully accepts defeat. Freddy surprisingly has had a change of heart; he found he could not take advantage of Janet, that his feelings for her were genuine. Instead, he has married her, is going straight, and they are returning to America. Lawrence reflects that Freddy has gotten the better deal in the end, but is distracted from this train of thought when his next target, a ravishing and extremely wealthy blonde, walks into the room.
Bedtime Story (1964 film)
1964