Samantha Kingston wakes on February 12, known as Cupids Day. She is picked up by her friends, Lindsay, Ally and Elody, who joke with her about losing her virginity to her boyfriend Rob that night. During class, when her teacher is lecturing on Sisyphus, Sam is handed a rose, gifted from her boyfriend with a nonchalant note. She is also given a pale colored rose with a note suggesting it is from another boy named Kent. He later invites her to his party. During lunch the girls make fun of Juliet, an outsider girl that they view as a "psycho". At the party, Juliet shows up, seemingly uninvited. Lindsay confronts her and the two fight, with Juliet leaving in tears. As they are driving back from the party, the car hits something and crashes, apparently killing Sam and her friends. Sam wakes in her room on Cupids Day again. Thinking the previous day was just a nightmare, Sam continues on with her day but finds that the same events occur, and they again crash after leaving the party. Sam wakes up on the same day again. Realizing she is in a time-loop, she convinces the group to have a sleepover instead of going to the party, trying to avoid the crash. They avoid the crash, but find out later in the night that Juliet has killed herself. Despite avoiding the crash, Sam wakes up on the same day again. Camera effects are used to indicate that Sam has continuously experienced the same day many times and is seemingly unable to break the loop, so one morning she decides to angrily react to everyone around her, insulting her friends and family. At the party, she has sex with Rob, but appears to not enjoy the experience. She runs into Kents room and breaks down in tears. Kent finds and comforts her, letting her stay in his room. She asks him why hes so nice to her and he says its because she was the first one to make him laugh after his father died in third grade. In the next iteration, she skips school and spends time with her sister. At the party, Sam and Kent share a kiss. She hears the fight between Lindsay and Juliet from the hall and chases after her through the woods. Sam tries to stop Juliet, but she jumps in front of Lindsays car and kills herself and Sams friends, horrifying Sam and making her realize that Juliet was what the car hit on the original day. Sam wakes up again with a sense of calm and understanding, knowing what she must do to end the loop. She resolves to be kind and considerate as she goes about her day. She sends roses to both Juliet and Kent. She also breaks up with Rob and tells Kent that she has a "secret" for him. At the party, she kisses Kent and tells him she loves him. She again intervenes to save Juliet, but when Juliet attempts to run into traffic, Sam pushes her out of the way at the last second and is killed by a truck. A montage of her good memories are shown. Juliet sobs to Sams lifeless body that she saved her, to which Sams voice replies, "No, you saved me."
Before I Fall (film)
2017