In 507, the legendary Geatish warrior Beowulf travels to Denmark with his band of soldiers, including his best friend, Wiglaf. They meet King Hrothgar, who needs a hero to slay Grendel, a hideously malformed troll-like creature with appalling strength and cunning, who attacked and killed many of Hrothgars warriors during a celebration in the mead hall Heorot. Upon arriving, Beowulf becomes attracted to Hrothgars wife, Queen Wealtheow, who reciprocates his interest. Beowulf and his men celebrate in Heorot to lure Grendel out. When the beast attacks, Beowulf engages him unarmed and naked. During the fight, Beowulf discovers that Grendel has hypersensitive hearing and ruptures the creatures eardrum. Grendel shrinks in size and manages to escape only after Beowulf severs his arm, mortally wounding him. Beowulf restrains Grendel and severs his left arm with the door. In thanks for freeing his kingdom from the monster, Hrothgar gives Beowulf his golden drinking horn, which commemorates Hrothgars victory over the mighty dragon Fafnir. In his cave, Grendels mother swears revenge over his corpse. She travels to Heorot and slaughters Beowulfs men while they are sleeping. Hrothgar tells both Beowulf and Wiglaf, who had been sleeping outside the hall during the attack, that it was the work of Grendels mother. She is the last of the Water Demons, who were thought to have left the land. Beowulf and Wiglaf travel to the demons cave to slay her. Beowulf enters the cave alone and encounters the demon, who takes the form of a beautiful woman. She seduces him with promises to make him king in exchange for the drinking horn and a son to replace Grendel. Beowulf returns to Heorot and announces he has killed the demon. Only Hrothgar is not fooled, as he too had been seduced by the demon; Grendel was the result of their tryst. Hrothgar crowns Beowulf king, then commits suicide by jumping from the castle parapet onto the beach below. Years later, the elderly Beowulf is married to though estranged from Wealtheow, who has converted to Christianity. Beowulf has a mistress, Ursula, but his tryst with Grendels mother has left him sterile. On the anniversary of Beowulfs victory against Grendel Unferth returns the golden drinking horn, which his slave had found on the moors. That night, a nearby village is destroyed by a dragon, which then transforms into a golden figure, who orders Unferth to give a message to King Beowulf—the dragons father. Beowulf and Wiglaf go to the cave once again, and Beowulf enters the cave alone. When Grendels mother appears, Beowulf gives her the golden horn, but she refuses to stop the attacks. The dragon attacks Beowulfs castle, threatening Wealtheow and Ursula. Despite his age, Beowulf goes to great lengths to stop the dragon, even slicing off his own arm in the process. Eventually, he kills the dragon by ripping its heart out, and he and the creature tumble to the rocky beach below the castle. As Wiglaf approaches him, Beowulf tries to tell the truth about his affair with Grendels mother, but Wiglaf insists on keeping his legacy intact. Beowulf then dies. As the new king, Wiglaf gives Beowulf a Norse funeral. Grendels mother appears and gives Beowulf a final kiss before his burning ship sinks into the sea. Wiglaf sees the golden horn washed by the waves of the sea in the sand while Grendels mother floats in the sea. As she smiles at him seductively, Wiglaf moves into the surf.
Beowulf (2007 film)
2007