Various people board a U.S. Army train to Berlin: Frenchwoman Lucienne Mirabeau (Merle Oberon) American agricultural expert Robert J. Lindley (Robert Ryan) Dr. Bernhardt (Paul Lukas), a renowned German activist working for peace and the reunification of his country Frenchman Henri Perrot (Charles Korvin) British teacher James Sterling (Robert Coote) Soviet Lieutenant Maxim Kiroshilov (Roman Toporow), and German businessman Herr Otto Franzen (Fritz Kortner) Dr. Bernhardt tries to become better acquainted with the other passengers, but they all rebuff his overtures because he is a German until Sterling realises who he is, which immediately changes the atmosphere. When he retires to his compartment, he is killed by a bomb. While the others are questioned at the next stop, Frankfurt, they learn that the dead man was actually one of the doctors bodyguards. Bernhardt had been posing as another passenger, and Lucienne is his secretary. Bernhardts enemies are not foiled for long. He is kidnapped from the busy train station in broad daylight after he greets Walther (Reinhold Schünzel), an old, trusted friend. The U.S. Army quickly institutes a search of the city, but when Lucienne begs her fellow travelers to help look for Bernhardt (as they know what he looks like), they at first all decline. One by one, however, they change their minds. Lucienne suggests they go see Walther, unaware that he has betrayed Bernhardt in return for his missing wifes location. When they get there, they discover only Walthers body. He hanged himself after the kidnappers revealed his wife was dead all along. The group then splits up to cover the city, with Lindley accompanying Lucienne to various illegal nightclubs. At the last one, Lindley notices a woman smoking an unusually long cigarette, just like the ones Bernhardt likes. He picks up a discarded butt and shows Lucienne that it has a "B" monogram on it. When the woman turns out to be an entertainer, pretending to know the answers of questions posed by the customers, Lindley asks her where Bernhardt is. Her clown assistant impedes Lindley, allowing her to get away. When Lindley and Lucienne question Sergeant Barnes (Michael Harvey), the American soldier who was sitting with the woman beforehand, he reluctantly agrees to lead them to where she lives. It is a trap, however. When they get to an abandoned brewery, Barnes turns out to be working with the kidnappers. Now all three are prisoners. Fortunately, an undercover agent had knocked out the clown and taken his place, accompanying the others to the hideout. He is shot when the real clown shows up, but manages to get back to the nightclub and inform the authorities where Bernhardt is being held. American soldiers break in just as Bernhardt and Lucienne are about to be shot, and free the three unharmed. Kessler (Otto Waldis), the ringleader, is killed by Perrot, who turns out to be Bernhardts would-be assassin. The passengers reboard the train. Perrot suggests that each of them take a turn guarding Bernhardt in his compartment, with him going first. Afterward, Lindley pieces together various lies Perrot had told and recalls that he knew that the bomb was made from a grenade, but the others dismiss his suspicions. Luckily, he sees Perrot strangling Bernhardt in the reflection from a passing train and saves the doctors life. Perrot is shot dead as he tries to flee.
Berlin Express
1948