After their wedding Rachel and Sam decide to start their own life. The Langham Hotel is willing to let anybody who can take the place of the landscaper and chef live in the hotel. Sam and Rachel bring Chloe and Papi to the hotel where Chloe and Papi meet Oscar and Jenny, the hotels Doggy Day School teachers. Papi is less than thrilled when he discovers he wills no longer be teaching the pups. Mr Hollis, the manager notices Chloe and asks if she can make appearances as the hotel has gained a major threat, Montague, the new hotel to rival the Langham. Because of this Sam and Rachel get the jobs. Rosa is also not much happier at the thought of Doggy Day School. Pedro also comes along to the Langham decked out in sunnies. The humans, chihuahuas and Pedro are blown away at their rooms luxury. However Rosa isnt feeling happy and is nervous about day school. Papi comforts her, telling her about how he was a chamberlain at a friends Quincenera when Pedro finds a picture in box marked DO NOT OPEN. Papi tells her what a Quince is about. Later, Chloe, Sam and Rachel start work and the puppies go to school. Rachel meets her boss, Chef Didei a bossy and tight man who is very fond of himself and very strict. When somebody quits Chef Didei says that he fired him. When he and Rachel meet he tells her to wash dishes and then throws herbs at her face when she asks if there was some confusion. Sam meets his assistant Lester who his lazy and tired who provides no reason for not helping and leaves Sam to do all the work. Rosa is being bullied by a large dog who teases her for having to wear swimmies. Rosa runs off upset and embarrassed and the puppies get payback on the dog. Papi finds Sam and offers assistance but just as he begins to help he hears a rustling sound and finds an overgrown messy garden with a gate. There he meets Arnie a resident stray dog whos a mute. Oscar then arrives as Jenny quickly leaves not wanting to be seen or heard. Papi is concerned for the pups safety and asks Oscar what is going on. Oscar however, doesnt want to mention anything and leaves Papi to ponder what is going on. Arnie makes a carving of Jenny to warn Papi but Papi doesnt understand it. Back at home, Rosa fakes sick to avoid going to school but when Papi says shell have to go to the vet she claims she is feeling better. She claims she doesnt want to be little anymore and states she wants to be a Quince. When the other pups assume it is "One of dads weird Mexican holidays," they state they want a sweet sixteen but Rosa says she wants a Quince and Papi promises to throw her one. The next day, an old friend, Sebastian, arrives and helps with the party planning. But in the midst of the party planning, Papi continues to b his assumptions,paranoid self and was pressured due to the lot of errands he has been working on. But as more proof of Jenny and Oscar scheming something behind their backs, and Rosa saving a dog, Charlotte, who was a VIP guest at the hotel, they contact Delgado, to help with their plan on catching Jenny and preparing Rosas quince. The next day, we see Papi, Pedro and Arnie together, Pedro keeping watch. As Jenny was tripped in peanut butter,Pedro calls other dogs and the manager of the hotel hears the commotion and sees Jenny with the guest info and Papi cues Pedro to open the gate and we see Delgado with the rival hotel manager,Montague hung upside down. As a bewildered Chloe apologizes with a kiss. After a while,Chloe and Papi wake up Rosa with a quince outfit for her and her siblings and get ready. As the quince starts,Ali Revealed that she was the one who mentioned Charlottes rescue to the other pups. Jenny and Oscar are arrested and Papi is the new teacher at the Langhams doggy day care teacher. In the post-credits the hotel manager finds Artie and wipes his mouth with his favorite handkerchief and tell the front desk to make a dog-tag for the manager suite and Papi ends the movie by saying his usual line
Beverly Hills Chihuahua 3: Viva la Fiesta!
2012