Young and reckless Detroit police detective Axel Foleys latest unauthorized sting operation goes sour when two uniformed officers intervene, resulting in a high-speed chase through the city which causes widespread damage. His boss Inspector Douglas Todd reprimands Axel for his behavior and threatens to fire him unless he changes his ways on the force. Axel arrives at his apartment to find it has been broken into by his childhood friend, Mikey Tandino. Mikey, an ex-con, ended up working as a security guard in Beverly Hills thanks to a mutual friend, Jenny Summers. Mikey shows Axel some German bearer bonds and Axel wonders how he got them, but chooses not to question him about it. After going out to a bar, they return to Axels apartment, where two men knock Axel unconscious, confront Mikey about the bearer bonds, then assault and kill him. Axel wants to investigate Mikeys murder, but Inspector Todd refuses to allow it because of his close ties to the victim. Against orders, Axel instead uses vacation time to head to Beverly Hills to investigate alone. He finds Jenny working in an art gallery and learns about Mikeys ties to Victor Maitland, the gallerys owner. Posing as a flower deliveryman, Axel goes to Maitlands office and tries to question him about Mikey, but is thrown out a window by Maitlands bodyguards and arrested. Wary of Axels intentions, Lieutenant Andrew Bogomil assigns Sergeant John Taggart and Detective Billy Rosewood to follow him. Antagonistic at first, the trio develop a mutual respect after foiling a robbery in a striptease bar. Axel sneaks into one of Maitlands warehouses where he finds coffee grounds and suspects they were used to pack drugs. He also discovers that many of Maitlands crates have not gone through customs. After being arrested again, this time after a scuffle at Maitlands country club, Axel confides to Bogomil that Maitland may be a drug smuggler. Police Chief Hubbard, having learned of Axels ill-advised investigative actions, removes Taggart and Rosewood from the case and orders Axel escorted out of town. However, Axel convinces Rosewood to pick up Jenny instead and take her with them to Maitlands warehouse, where a shipment is due to arrive that day. Axel and Jenny break into the warehouse and discover several bags of cocaine inside a crate. Before Axel can get this new-found evidence to Rosewood, Maitland and his associates arrive. Maitland takes Jenny and leaves Axel to be killed but Rosewood enters the warehouse and rescues him. Taggart tracks Axel and Rosewood to Maitlands estate, joining them in their efforts to rescue Jenny and bring Maitland to justice. After wiping out most of Maitlands men, Axel kills Zack, Maitlands right-hand man and Mikeys killer. Bogomil arrives, helping Axel kill Maitland and rescue Jenny. Bogomil then fabricates a story to Hubbard that covers for all the participants without discrediting the Beverly Hills Police force. Realizing that he will be fired in Detroit, Axel asks Bogomil to speak to Inspector Todd and smooth things over for him. Later, Taggart and Rosewood pay Axels bill as he checks out of his hotel. Axel invites them to join him for a farewell drink, and they accept.
Beverly Hills Cop
1994