At the same time where the first film left off, Mark Corley is a Los Angeles Police Detective who visits his teenage son, Trent, having landed in jail due to brawling just as an alien invasion begins and the entire population of the city is sucked into various spaceships by the blue light. Mark leads a group of surviving humans through the underground subway tunnels to try to escape from the various aliens. As most of the humans are killed and/or abducted one by one by the aliens, Mark, Trent, and other survivors who include transit operator Audrey and a blind homeless man known only as "Sarge", who is immune to the blue light since it does not affect his eyes, make it to the marina to escape from the city following its nuclear destruction only to get abducted into the alien flagship by a towering alien tanker. On board the spaceship, Mark tries to find his son and storms his way into various chambers where he meets up with survivor Elaine and her transformed beau Jarrod to battle the aliens. Elaine gives Mark an update all about the alien invasion and about Jarrods transformation. Despite Elaine being three months pregnant, her pregnancy has drastically accelerated, and she gives birth to a newborn daughter. Elaine dies during the delivery, and Mark and Alien Jarrod team up to destroy the alien ship by setting alien technology explosives inside the ships control systems. As Alien Jarrod fights various alien warriors, Mark rescues Audrey, but is too late to save his son when Trent has his brain taken and placed in another alien bio-mechanical machine creature. Sarge is mortally wounded when he intercepts an alien so that Mark, Audrey, and the baby can escape from the chamber. Alien Jarrod is taken down when he fights the alien leader, but succeeds in destroying the ship, which crashes in rural Laos in Southeast Asia. As the alien spaceship begins to repair itself, Mark, Audrey, Sarge, and the baby are found by a pair of human siblings, outlaw Sua and his sister Kanya, who are evading both aliens and local militia, who are killing and looting the local population. Sarge succumbs to his wounds, and as the rest trek through the jungle, they discover that the baby grows at an accelerated rate from a newborn into a three-year-old in just one day. Sua and Kanya lead Mark, Audrey, and the baby to a hidden human resistance hideout located in local ruins where Harper, a medical officer and former drug smuggler, examines the baby and learns about her unique DNA, implying that her blood may be the key to defeating the aliens due to her evolving DNA. Mark believes this is the key to turn all aliens with human brains against the original invaders, so they can rebel and save everyone. While examining an egg recovered from the crashed ship by Sua and his sister, Harper determines that its an alien bullet and combining the material inside with the childs DNA creates a new bomb that changes the blue lights to red lights and effectively restores the humanity of the transformed humans. While on a patrol, Kanya encounters a four-legged tanker alien and sacrifices herself by luring it into an old minefield left over from the Vietnam war to destroy it, but unwittingly gives away their location to the alien ships searching for the child, which then converge on the human base. During the climactic battle between the aliens and human resistance fighters, Mark attempts to board a landed alien ship to inject one of their bullets with the serum Harper developed and use it to restore the minds of the transformed people. Many resistance fighters are killed, including Harper, but they also kill many of the warriors, forcing the leader to attack himself in an alien tanker. Aboard the ship, Mark succeeds in injecting the serum, but is attacked by his transformed son. The bullet restores Trents humanity, but the alien leader rips out the ships cannon to prevent the bullet from being fired. In response, Trent boards a tanker himself and battles the alien leader while the child is able to activate the cannon. Trent is able to use the canon to kill the alien leader while simultaneously releasing the bullet containing the serum. The bullet transforms all the blue lighted aliens into red lighted ones, restoring their humanity and giving the human race a way to fight back. In the aftermath, Mark and Audrey decide to adopt the child and name her Rose after Marks deceased wife. The ending of the film skips forward 10 years where Rose (at age 10 but looking at least 20 due to her accelerated growth rate) has taken control of an alien ship, with Trent as her second-in-command, and leading the human resistance against the aliens operating on the far side of Earths moon. Rose leads the red-lighted aliens and humans in their space assault on the other blue-lighted alien ships, including the mothership.
Beyond Skyline
2017