India, 1947: In the final days of British rule, Victoria Jones, the daughter of an Indian mother and an English train engineer, is serving in the British Army. She returns on leave after four years to her home in Bhowani, where supporters of Mahatma Gandhi are non-violently protesting against British rule and communists, led by a revolutionary known as Davay, foment riot and sabotage. She becomes reacquainted with a childhood sweetheart also of Anglo-Indian heritage, rail traffic superintendent Patrick Taylor, and with Colonel Rodney Savage, whose Indian battalion has been sent to Bhowani to maintain law and order as British rule ends. The protesters disrupt rail service and Savage places Victoria on duty during the crisis. He disperses the protesters but Victoria does not approve of his methods. She begins seriously contemplating her identity and speculates that she might marry a man from India, although clearly Taylor is still in love with her and Savage infatuated. Walking home alone one night, Victoria is attacked and nearly raped by Captain McDaniel, one of Savages officers, killing him with a steel bar. Finding her, a Sikh co-worker of Taylors, Ranjit Kasel, takes her to his home and offers her sanctuary, introducing her to his mother, the Sadani, and to a guest in their home, Ghan Shyam, who offers to hide McDaniels body after the Sadani worries that her son Ranjit will be accused of murdering the officer. Davays raids continue. He blows up a train, causing numerous deaths and injuries. Victoria, influenced by her love for India, decides to marry Ranjit, but fearing the complete loss of her identity during the ceremony, suddenly flee. When an army sentry is found murdered because he saw McDaniel and Victoria together just before she killed the officer, Victoria realizes that the man in Ranjits home, Ghan Shyam, is actually Davay and that the Sadani, once a notorious Indian resistance leader, has been harboring him. Davay kidnaps Victoria, using her to escape the city aboard her fathers train. Savage and Taylor intercept the train before it reaches a tunnel, rescuing Victoria but finding Davay has gone into the tunnel with dynamite. Taylor recklessly advances to defuse the dynamite but is shot by Davay, who is immediately killed by Savage. Savage, cradling Taylor as he dies, watches the passage of the train. On board is Gandhi, whom Davay meant to assassinate, thereby inciting further hostilities and riots. Savages duty in India ends and he is summoned back to England, but his love for Victoria has become overwhelming. When she refuses to marry him and live in England, he proposes to marry but remain in India, and she accepts. Savages superior offers to expedite his early release from military service as reward for his accomplishments.
Bhowani Junction (film)
1956