Immature and lazy 32-year-old young bachelor Sonny Koufax lives in New York City, and refuses to take on adult responsibility. Despite having a law degree, he refuses to take the bar exam, works one day a week as a toll booth attendant and lives off a large compensation payout from a minor accident. His girlfriend, Vanessa, threatens to break up with him unless he grows up. His roommate, Kevin Gerrity, proposes to his podiatrist girlfriend Corinne Maloney before he leaves for China to work at his law firm, and she accepts. Sonny constantly teases Corinne, especially about her former job at Hooters. The next day, Sonny wakes up to find a five-year-old boy named Julian McGrath abandoned at their apartment. A written explanation says that Julians mother is no longer able to care for him and that Kevin is his biological father. Sonny assures Kevin that he will look after Julian until Kevin returns from China. In order to win Vanessa back, Sonny introduces her to Julian. However, he discovers that she is now dating Sid, an elderly man who is more motivated and intelligent and has a "five-year plan." Posing as Kevin, Sonny takes Julian to his social worker Arthur Brooks, telling him that Julian should return to his mother. However, Brooks informs Sonny that Julians mother died of cancer. Sonny then decides to raise Julian his own way. As such, the boy renames himself "Frankenstein" and also helps Sonny find a new girlfriend in Corinnes lawyer sister Layla. Brooks finds a foster home for Julian and leaves messages for Sonny, but is suspicious when Sonny does not answer. At a meeting at Julians school, the teacher is shocked by the terrible habits Sonny has allowed Julian to develop, causing Sonny to rethink his parenting methods. He turns himself and Julian around, but then Brooks arrives to find out Sonny impersonated Kevin and Julian is taken away. In court, numerous people including Corinne testify on Sonnys behalf and tell the judge he is a suitable father. Julian also testifies and provides information regarding his heritage. As a final straw, Sonny calls himself to the stand and asks his Florida lawyer father Lenny, who is present, to interrogate him. Despite Lennys fervent belief that Sonny is not father material, Sonny convinces Lenny that he will try his best at being a father. Impressed by Sonnys sincerity, Lenny vouches for him. Nonetheless, the unconvinced judge orders Sonnys arrest. However, Kevin, having pieced the necessary information together, confesses to being Julians biological father and insists they drop the charges. Sonny remains friends with Julian and hands him off to Kevin, watching them bond. One year later, Sonny has turned his life around: he is now a successful lawyer, is married to Layla, and they have a child of their own. At Sonnys surprise birthday party at a Hooters restaurant attended by Kevin, Corinne, Julian and others; Sonny sees Vanessa working as a waitress, with Sid working as a cook, revealing his "five-year-plan" has gone awry. Everyones celebrates Sonnys birthday.
Big Daddy (1999 film)
1999