A Roman small-time crook, Cosimo, is arrested for the attempted theft of a car. After he is convicted and put in prison, he starts haranguing his girlfriend and former accomplices by telling them that he has a plan for a heist but that he needs their help to be freed. In order to assure his release, they find an acquaintance named Peppe (Vittorio Gassman) with a clean criminal record to take the blame for the theft in the hope that the police will release Cosimo. The attempt gets Peppe in jail but fails to secure Cosimos release. While in jail, Cosimo tells Peppe the plans for the heist of a safe in a pawnshop. Peppe then reveals that he got off with probation, leaving him free to pursue the heist without Cosimo, much to his chagrin. The heist entails the following: as the pawnshop is adjacent to a vacant apartment, they must first break into a small courtyard, climb onto the roof of another small apartment, and break in through a window of the vacant home. To accomplish this, they enlist the help of another local thief (Totò) an expert safecracker who teaches them how to silence the alarm bell, so that they may break in. While everything is planned, they discover that the vacant apartment has just become occupied by two spinsters and their young, attractive maid. Peppe learns from the young maid, with whom he flirts, that the two women never leave their apartment but for a day a week, on Thursday, when they go and visit a country cottage they own, spending the night there and not being back until Friday noon. After arranging a date with the girl on this particular day, the group is distressed to learn that she has quit her job and the women may in fact be there on Thursday night. Meanwhile, a number of misfortunes are incurred by the group: Cosimo, who had since been released from jail, dies in a botched robbery; Mario, another of the group, bails on the plan in favor of a legitimate life for the sake of a beautiful girl (incidentally, the sister of another gang member), while another of the group suffers from a broken arm after being attacked by the man whose camera he stole earlier for the purpose of daytime reconnaissance of the pawnshop. Despite this, they proceed with the plan anyway after learning that the women will not be in the apartment. Notwithstanding a number of bumbling entries, they gain entry into the apartment. After first boring a hole through a water pipe, they are forced to staunch the flow of water while remaining quiet after a night porter enters the apartment to make a call. After these obstacles, they bore another hole, this time knocking out a portion of the wall, but breaking into the kitchen of the same apartment as the flat was remodeled since the arrival of the new tenants, while the men acted on the basis of the previous rooms arrangement. After they realize their plan was miscalculated, they congregate in the partially demolished kitchen for a sad late-night meal; their misfortunes do not end as they even manage to blow up the stove while trying to warm up some meat rolls. Peppe then decides to find legitimate work, much to the surprise of Capannelle, the elderly member of the group (and the one to have caused the stove explosion). The film ends with a newspaper article recounting a robbery by unknown persons who apparently broke into an apartment to steal pasta with chickpeas.
Big Deal on Madonna Street
2002