Jason Shepherd is a 14-year-old chronic liar who is constantly deceiving and misleading his way out of trouble. He tries to get out of his creative writing essay by making up a lie but eventually gets caught by his English teacher Phyllis Caldwell, who alerts his parents. He is given three hours to submit his essay, otherwise, he will fail English and go to summer school. Jason writes a story titled Big Fat Liar, based on the lies he has told throughout his life. On his way to turn it in, he is struck by the limousine of Hollywood producer Marty Wolf, who gives him a ride. Along the way, Marty reveals that he also tells lies and that, "The truth is overrated." In a rush, Jason accidentally forgets his essay in the limo upon arriving; Marty initially tries to return it but is inspired by the story when he reads it and decides to keep it for himself. Jason realizes his essay is missing and explains what happened, but his parents and Caldwell do not believe him, and he is sent to summer school to repeat English. Later, he and his best friend Kaylee see a preview for a film produced by Wolf Pictures titled Big Fat Liar and recognize that it had been plagarized from Jasons essay. Determined to convince his parents he was being truthful after having lost their trust, Jason and Kaylee fly to Los Angeles to confront Marty while their parents are out of town. Upon arrival, they trick limo driver and struggling actor Frank Jackson into giving them a ride to the Wolf Pictures studio. Jason sneaks into Martys office, hoping to convince him to tell his parents what really happened, but Marty burns the essay and has Jason and Kaylee thrown out. Angered, the two decide to inconvenience him until he confesses, with Jackson joining them due to his own troubled history with Marty. After gathering information about Martys cruel and abusive treatment of his employees, they begin to sabotage him through various pranks, such as dyeing his skin blue and hair orange, super gluing his headset, sending him to a childs birthday party where he is mistaken for the hired clown, and modifying the controls to his car. These pranks make Marty miss his appointment with his boss, Universal Pictures president Marcus Duncan. After Martys previous film proves to be a critical and commercial failure, Marcus loses confidence in him and threatens to pull production for Big Fat Liar. Jason approaches Marty and agrees to help in exchange for his confession. Guided by Jason, Marty makes a successful presentation which gets Big Fat Liar green-lit, but Marcus warns Marty any mistakes will make Universal pull funding and end his career. Marty betrays Jason again and calls security to arrest him and Kaylee. Martys assistant, Monty Kirkham, decides to help Jason and Kaylee expose him, having grown tired of his repeated verbal abuse. They rally all of his employees and devise a plan to finally stop him, while Jason has his parents fly to Los Angeles. The next morning, as Marty heads to the studio to begin shooting, many of his employees cause him to be late through multiple mishaps. As Marty finally arrives at the studio, he witnesses Jason kidnapping his stuffed monkey toy. After a chase across the studio, Marty catches Jason and retrieves his toy. He mocks Jason and tells him he will never reveal the truth to anyone while admitting that he stole Jasons paper and turned it into Big Fat Liar. The entire conversation is revealed to have been caught on camera and is witnessed by many people, including Jasons parents and the news media. Disgusted by his plagiarism and dishonesty, Marcus fires Marty. Jason thanks Marty for teaching him the importance of truth-telling, and he regains his parents trust. Universal produces Big Fat Liar, utilizing the talents and skills of people whom Marty had abused. Frank Jackson stars as the films lead character, and the film is released in theaters, with Jason receiving credit for writing the original story, making Jasons parents and Caldwell proud of him. Meanwhile, Marty, having been permanently stripped of his career, declares bankruptcy and begins his new job as a birthday clown.
Big Fat Liar
2002