Harry Palmer (Michael Caine), who has left MI5 to work as a private investigator, is told by a mechanical voice on the phone to take a package to Helsinki. The package contains six virus-laden eggs that have been stolen from the British governments research facility at Porton Down. In Helsinki, he is met by Anya (Françoise Dorléac) who takes him to meet her handler, Harrys old friend Leo Newbigen (Karl Malden). Leo is in love with Anya, but Harry knows that she is only pretending to reciprocate. Leo takes Harry to a secret room where a computer issues daily instructions to Leo and Anya. The computer speaks in the same voice as the one which summoned Harry to Helsinki. After determining that he cannot trust either Leo or Anya, Harry is abducted by his former MI5 superior, Colonel Ross (Guy Doleman), who coerces him into working once more for the British government in pursuing the conspiracy. Harry is ordered to Latvia where he embeds with some rebels to obtain intelligence for Leos operation. After being captured and left for dead, Harry is extracted from Russia by Colonel Stok (Oskar Homolka), an old acquaintance from the KGB. Back in Helsinki, Anya tries to kill Harry while seducing him, then confesses that the computer told her to kill him. Harry locks her in a room and waits for Leo at the computers location. Leo offers to pay off Harry for his trouble, but Harry insists on half of the money Leo is getting from whatever the conspiracy is all about. The pair go to Texas, where Harry meets oil tycoon General Midwinter (Ed Begley). The General proudly displays his billion-dollar brain, a room full of computers that dispenses orders to his agents around the world. The General is in the midst of planning a rebellion in Latvia which he thinks will trigger the fall of the Soviet Union. His plan is to infect the Red Army with the viruses, while using his Latvian agents to begin a rebellion as his own private army invades. Meanwhile, Leo subverts the Generals computer orders and escapes with the eggs. The General realises Harry is a double agent, but Harry convinces him that he can track Leo down. Back in Helsinki, Leo and Anya board a train for the Soviet Union with the eggs, but Harry, accompanied by two of Midwinters men, intercepts them and escorts Leo off the train with the eggs. Anya shoots Harrys bodyguards as the train pulls away from the station. Leo runs after the train and hands the eggs to Anya. As he tries to pull himself up, Anya pushes him off the train and shrugs as he looks at her in bewilderment. "She used me," Leo tells Harry. He then offers to help Harry stop the Generals insane plan, which could trigger World War III. In personnel carriers made from oil tanker trucks from his company, the General leads his private army across the frozen Baltic Sea into Latvia. Harry and Leo attempt to catch up with the General, but he orders their car to be fired upon and Leo is killed. Meanwhile, Col. Stok is fully aware of the invasion and orders bombers to intercept the convoy. Rather than dropping their bombs directly on the convoy, they simply drop the bombs on the ice in the convoys path, breaking the ice (an homage to the 1938 film Alexander Nevsky). The entire convoy plunges into the freezing water, and all the vehicles and soldiers — including the General himself — sink below the ice to a cold, watery, Baltic grave. Harry awakes alone on an ice floe. Col. Stok arrives in a helicopter with Anya and the eggs. He gives the eggs to Harry. "We dont need them," he says, "We have our own ideas." Stok confirms that Anya is one of his spies. Back in London, Harry delivers the eggs to Colonel Ross, who agrees to reward Harry with a promotion. However, when he opens the package to inspect the eggs, he finds they have hatched and the box is full of baby chicks.
Billion Dollar Brain
1967