The story centers on two women. Catharine (Theresa Russell) is a psychopathic femme fatale who preys on wealthy middle-aged men, seducing them into marriage and then fatally poisoning them. Each death is misdiagnosed as Ondines curse, a condition by which seemingly healthy middle-aged men die in their sleep. Justice Department agent Alexandra "Alex" Barnes (Debra Winger) stumbles onto the first murder while investigating another case. As Alex delves further into the case, she uncovers a pattern which she believes ties the same woman to several similar murders. Using exhaustive research and preparation as well as identity and appearance changes, Catharine weaves her web anew with each murder, killing a publishing magnate, a toy maker (Dennis Hopper), and a museum curator (Nicol Williamson), and is quickly moving on to her next victim: Paul Nuytten (Sami Frey), an international hotel tycoon. Later, she reveals that she has been married six times, and possibly has murdered all her husbands. After the death of the rich, lonely museum curator in Seattle, Alexs boss Bruce (Terry OQuinn) gives her tacit permission to hunt down the killer, and Alex goes undercover as "Jessie Bates" to track down Catharine and identify her next potential victim. The trail leads from Seattle to Hawaii, where Catharine is moving on Paul. With the aid of a private investigator, "Jessie" arranges to meet Catharine; the two women become friends. Catharine arranges for them to compete for Pauls affection; hes attracted to "Jessie," but falls for Catharines charm and her stylishly executed seduction. Catharine marries him and, during the reception, reveals to "Jessie" that the "black widow" knows about the federal agent. "Jessie" tries to warn Paul of Catharines murderous intentions but he is skeptical, refusing to believe she is after his money; in the event of either of their deaths, their wills both stipulate that their net worth be left to the Cancer Foundation and not to each other. The private investigator is found dead of a suspicious drug overdose, after Catharine had forced him at gunpoint to inject himself. After Pauls apparent death, Catharine accuses "Jessie" of killing him, and "Jessie" is arrested when the police find poison in her room. Catharine meets with Pauls attorney, who explains that Paul was a resident of Florida, and according to state law, a spouse has the right to overturn charitable bequests stipulated in their spouses will. Catharine then tells the attorney that shortly before his death, Paul had expressed "profound reservations" about the Cancer Foundation. Catharine visits "Jessie" in prison, and while they talk, Catharine is confronted by the sister of one of her husbands and victims: Sam Petersen, the publisher. Then Paul enters the room, alive and well, and now aware that Catharine was in fact after his money. Catharine, shocked, realizes that her attempt to double-cross Jessie/Alex has failed. Catharine is arrested, and Alex emerges as the heroine, leaving as reporters attempt to question her.
Black Widow (1987 film)
1987