A disoriented person climbs up into the attic of a sorority house in the fictional town of Bedford while the occupants hold a Christmas party. At the party, Jess receives an obscene phone call from "The Moaner", a man who has been calling the house. Jess allows her sorority sisters Barb Coard, Phyllis "Phyl" Carlson, Clare Harrison, and several other girls to listen in on the call. Barb provokes the caller, who responds by telling the girls that he is going to kill them and then hanging up the phone; Barb and Clare argue over the potential threat posed by the caller. Upstairs, Clare begins to pack and while she investigates a noise, she is suffocated with plastic wrapping by the unseen person before placing her body in a rocking chair inside the attic. The next day, Clares father arrives to bring her home for the holidays. The Housemother Mrs. Mac and the other girls are taken off guard, believing that Clare left the night before. Meanwhile, Jess meets with her boyfriend Peter Smythe, a neurotic aspiring pianist, to inform him that she is pregnant and wants to have an abortion; Peter becomes agitated and urges her to reconsider, but she refuses. Elsewhere, Mr. Harrison, Barb, and Phyl go to the police to report Clares disappearance while Jess informs Clares boyfriend Chris about the situation. After discussing the case with Lt. Kenneth Fuller, the group learns that a local mother Mrs. Quaife has reported her daughter Janice missing as well. That evening, Mr. Harrison, Chris, and the sorority sisters join a search party for Janice and Clare. Back at the house, Mrs. Mac is murdered by the unseen assailant with a hook dragging her into the attic. Upon returning home after the search party finds Janices dead body, Jess receives another obscene call and reports it to the police. She is startled by Peter, who sneaked into the house to confront Jess about her planned abortion; the two argue and he leaves upset. Lt. Fuller then arrives and arranges for the sorority houses phone to be bugged in order to trace the origin of the obscene phone calls. While Christmas carolers visit the house to sing, the killer takes this opportunity to sneak into Barbs room and stabs her to death with a glass unicorn head as her screams get drowned out from the singing. Afterwards, Jess receives another obscene call that quotes part of the argument she had with Peter. Phyl goes upstairs into Barbs room to check on her, and she is murdered off-screen. While the assailant phones Jess again, she keeps him on the line long enough for the police to trace the call. Sergeant Nash contacts Jess to inform her that the calls are coming from inside the sorority house, and orders her to leave the place immediately. Worried about Barb and Phyls whereabouts, she arms herself with a fireplace poker and goes upstairs where she discovers both of them dead. The assailant then chases Jess through the house, and she finally barricades herself in the cellar. Peter reappears outside a basement window, telling her he heard screaming. Jess, assuming he is the killer, bludgeons him to death out of panic when he enters to approach her. Lt. Fuller and the police arrive and find a fatigued Jess in the basement with Peters corpse. Later, she is sedated into bed and the officers discuss the case; they also believe Peter is the killer, although they are puzzled about the absences of Clares and Mrs. Macs bodies. The police then leave Jess alone to sleep while a sole officer waits outside for a forensics team to arrive. After everyone has left, the assailant - obviously not Peter - whispers "Agnes, its me, Billy," before Jesss phone begins to ring, leaving her fate, and the killers identity, unknown.
Black Christmas (1974 film)
2006