At a nuclear plant in Chai Wan, Hong Kong, a hacker causes the coolant pumps to overheat and explode. Not long after in Chicago, the Mercantile Trade Exchange gets hacked, causing soy futures to rise. The Chinese government and the FBI determine that the hack was caused by a Remote Access Tool (RAT). An army officer in Chinas Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) cyber warfare unit, Captain Chen Dawai (Leehom Wang), is tasked to find the people responsible for the attacks, and enlists the aid of his sister Chen Lien (Tang Wei), a hacking engineer. He meets with FBI Special Agent Carol Barrett (Viola Davis) in Los Angeles and reveals the code in the RAT was written by himself and Nicholas Hathaway (Chris Hemsworth), his brilliant college roommate, in their school days at M.I.T., years before Hathaway was sent to prison for an unrelated hack. Dawai asks that the FBI arrange for Hathaway to be released from prison, where he is serving a sentence for computer crimes. Hathaway is offered a temporary release in exchange for his services. He negotiates a deal with the U.S. government to have his prison sentence commuted as time served if his assistance aids in the apprehension of the hacker. However, he must wear an ankle bracelet and be monitored by a US Deputy Marshal named Jessup (Holt McCallany). Hathaway identifies the criminal who aided the hacker in his penetration of the Exchanges computer servers and develops a romantic relationship with Lien. Clues uncovered by Captain Chen and Special Agent Barrett next lead the team to Hong Kong where the team works with Police Inspector Alex Trang (Andy On). Hathaway manipulates the update system on the Marshals phone GPS that tracks his location, so he can follow his own lead and arranges a meet with the hackers partner to a restaurant. While they are waiting, he tells Lien about his past, but the hackers partner never shows. Hathaway discovers a camera watching them and messages the hacker on the restaurants computer that he is on his trail now. A gang arrives, but Hathaway defeats them as if it were a prison fight. Meanwhile, the team traces the stock trade money to a known paramilitary operative named Elias Kassar. Hathaway, Jessup, Chen, and Trang, along with a Special Duties Unit team, raid Kassars hideout. A shootout ensues and Trang as well as a number of SDU officers are killed as Kassars men are armed with superior firepower and explosives, allowing them to escape by boat. Meanwhile, the nuclear plant has stabilized enough to retrieve a data drive from the control room but it is corrupted. The NSAs Black Widow software has the power to repair the data, but the US does not want the Chinese using it. Hathaway goes rogue and successfully hacks into the NSA to use Black Widow, discovering that the hackers server is based in Jakarta. Lien finds out the hacker has been buying high-resolution satellite photos of a site near Seri Manjung, Malaysia. Hathaways hack into the NSA does not go unnoticed and the US government, NSA & FBI demands his return to prison. Dawais superiors advise him to proceed the investigation without Hathaway. Outside, one of Kassars men secretly plants a tracking device on Dawais car. Dawai, Lien and Hathaway manage to elude them but Hathaway argues with Lien about the danger of them staying together, when they are ambushed by Kassar and his men. Dawai is killed as are Barrett and Jessup, who arrive on the scene. Lien and Hathaway barely escape into the subway. Lien uses her connections to acquire a plane to go after Kassar. Mourning Dawais death, Hathaway and Lien travel to Malaysia out of revenge to figure out the hackers goal. After discovering a set of tin mines, Hathaway realizes that the hackers attack at the nuclear plant was merely a test for a later plan to sabotage a large dam with huge spill ways to destroy several major tin mines that are down stream in Malaysia, allowing the hacker to make a fortune trading tin futures. The two travel to Jakarta and hack into the banks computer to successfully drain the hackers bank accounts, forcing the hacker to respond. The hacker (Yorick van Wageningen) and Hathaway agree to become partners. Hathaway knows that the meeting will be a trap and arms himself with makeshift weapons and body armor, using his prison knowledge. He conceals the weapons under a loose fitting jacket. Hathaway insists the red hat hacker and Kassar come alone but they bring their henchmen. Lien spots them and alerts Hathaway, who orders them to a new location at nightfall, a crowded parade in a large park. Hathaway trails the hacker and Kassar from behind. Kassar draws a machine pistol on Hathaway as he approaches. As Kassar is frisking Hathaway, he is overpowered and fatally stabbed with the screwdriver. Two of the hackers men catch up and a firefight ensues, wounding Hathaway despite the armor, who manages to kill both men with the pistol. Hathaway is stabbed by the hacker, but manages to kill him. He regroups with Liens help, and she gives him medical attention. The film ends with Lien and Hathaway leaving Indonesia, with the hackers money still in their bank account, although they are now fugitives at large.
Blackhat (film)
2015