In 2014, James Donahue finds a video on YouTube containing an image of a woman he believes to be his sister Heather, who disappeared in 1994 near Burkittsville, Maryland while investigating the legend of the Blair Witch. Believing she is still alive, he heads into the woods, accompanied by friends Peter Jones, Ashley Bennett, and film student Lisa Arlington, who wants to film James search as a documentary, The Absence of Closure. Locals Talia and Lane, who found and uploaded the video, join them. While walking through the woods and upon setting up camp for the night, Lane and Talia discuss the disappearance of Heather and her film crew, the 1940-41 murders by Rustin Parr, and other mysterious occurrences, which they ascribe to the Blair Witch. They hear noises during the night, then awaken at 2 p.m. to find strange stick figures hanging from the trees. When Lisa notices twine in Lanes backpack, he and Talia admit to creating the figures in order to convince the group to believe, but also point out that there is no explanation for the strange noises during the night and sleeping through the day. James and his friend banish Lane and Talia from their group and head out of the woods. After hours of walking, the four surprisingly arrive back at their original campsite. Lisa pilots a drone to obtain their location, but it malfunctions. Ashley becomes sick due to a wound on her foot, forcing the group to camp again. When Peter inspects Ashleys wounded foot, he notices what he thinks may be a parasite inside the wound. Peter leaves the camp for firewood, soon being chased by an unknown entity; a tree falls on him, then he disappears. Lane and Talia appear in the night, claiming they have been wandering for five days without a sunrise. Lane believes the camp is a hallucination and runs off, leaving the dishevelled and ravenously hungry Talia. The next morning, James and Lisa are stunned to find that it is still dark outside at 7am and discover larger stick figures. Talia sees clumps of her hair tied to one of the figures. Ashley accuses Talia of crafting them and snaps the figure with Talias hair in half; Talia is then snapped in half. An unseen force lifts their tent and the group is separated. Ashley finds the drone and climbs a tree to recover it, but is knocked out and falls from the tree, the unknown entity dragging her away. A rainstorm ensues as Lisa and James stumble across Rustin Parrs house, which James had previously stated to have been burned down after his execution. James hears Heather scream upstairs, enters the house and sees Peter standing in the corner. He chases after the figure he believes to be Heather, confronted by a teleporting dishevelled figure; upon its vanishing he barricades himself. Lisa spots the unknown entity, a tall, pale, long-limbed creature moving through the trees, and she runs into the houses basement. She finds an aged and hostile Lane who traps her in an underground tunnel as “you have to do what she tells you”. The tunnel connects to a different part of the house, where Lisa stabs and kills Lane when he attacks her. Lisa flees when the long-limbed creature emerges from the tunnel and chases her through the house. Lisa runs up to the attic with Lanes camcorder, creating the paradox video that lured them all to the woods. She reunites with James in the attic and they try to barricade the door. A bright light shines from outside the building, moving until stopping at the door, indicating the arrival of the witch. James tells Lisa to face the corner of the room and desperately apologizes to her for their fate before the witch enters, alongside her creature. James is tricked into turning around, believing that he hears Heathers voice, and vanishes from sight. Lisa uses Lanes camcorder to view what is behind her and begins walking backward. However, hearing James apology again, she turns, and vanishes, leaving her camera behind before it gives out, leaving their fates unknown.
Blair Witch (film)
2016