In the American frontier of 1874, construction on a new railroad will soon be going through Rock Ridge, a town inhabited exclusively by white people with the surname Johnson. The conniving attorney general Hedley Lamarr wants to force Rock Ridges residents to abandon their town, thereby lowering land prices. After he sends a gang of thugs, led by his flunky Taggart, to shoot the sheriff and trash the town, the townspeople demand that Governor William J. Le Petomane appoint a new sheriff to protect them. Lamarr persuades the dim-witted Le Petomane to appoint Bart, a black railroad worker who was about to be executed for starting a fight. A black sheriff, he reasons, will offend the townspeople, create chaos, and leave the town at his mercy. With his quick wits and the assistance of Jim, an alcoholic gunslinger known as the "Waco Kid", Bart works to overcome the townspeoples hostile reception. He subdues Mongo, an immensely strong, dim-witted, but philosophical henchman sent to kill him, and then beats German seductress-for-hire Lili von Shtupp at her own game. Lamarr, furious that his schemes have backfired, hatches a larger plan involving a recruited army of thugs, including common criminals, Ku Klux Klansmen, Nazis, and Methodists. Three miles east of Rock Ridge, Bart introduces the white townspeople to the black, Chinese and Irish railroad workers — who have agreed to help in exchange for acceptance by the community — and explains his plan to defeat Lamarrs army. They labor all night to build a perfect replica of their town, as a diversion; but with no people in it, Bart realizes it wont fool the villains. While the townspeople construct replicas of themselves, Bart, Jim, and Mongo buy time by constructing the "Gov. William J. Le Petomane Thruway," forcing the raiding party to turn back for "a shitload of dimes" to pay the toll. Once through the tollbooth, the raiders attack the fake town populated with dummies, which are boobytrapped with dynamite bombs. After Jim detonates the bombs with his sharpshooting, launching bad guys and horses skyward, the Rock Ridgers storm the villains. The resulting brawl between townsfolk, railroad workers, and Lamarrs thugs breaks the fourth wall, spilling onto a neighboring set where director Buddy Bizarre is directing a Busby Berkeley-style top-hat-and-tails musical number; then into the studio commissary for a food fight; and then out of the Warner Bros. film lot into the streets of Burbank. Lamarr, realizing he has been beaten, hails a taxi and orders the driver to "drive me off this picture". He ducks into Graumans Chinese Theatre, which is playing the premiere of Blazing Saddles. As he settles into his seat, he sees Bart arriving on horseback outside the theatre. Bart blocks Lamarrs escape, and then shoots him in the groin. Bart and Jim then go into Graumans to watch the end of the film, in which Bart announces to the townspeople that he is moving on. Riding out of town, he finds Jim, and invites him along to "nowhere special". They ride off into the sunset in a chauffeured stretch limousine.
Blazing Saddles
1974