Divorcee Lauren Reynolds goes on a blind date with widower Jim Friedman at Hooters; it goes badly. Lauren talks at work to her friend Jen about the experience. Jim discusses his date with his co-worker. They both agree in the separate discussions that things could have gone better. Lauren and Jim run into each other while on errands to the pharmacy to get a personal item for one of their own children. They attempt to avoid embarrassment by these purchases and switch between themselves. Jim attempts to sort out the mess by going over to Laurens to exchange. Jen is at Laurens and has broken up with her boyfriend Dick, Jims boss, although they had already paid for a trip to Africa. Lauren committed to using Jens portion of the holiday without knowing that Jim intended using Dicks. Also, the hotel accommodation for Jen and Dick was a romantic suite. The families are put together for a "blended familymoon", where they get together with other couples, including the oversexed Eddy and Ginger, Eddys new bride and quite his junior to the chagrin of their teenage son Jake, whom Jims oldest daughter Hilary develops a crush on at first sight. The kids make an awkward impression with each other, with Brendan calling his mom "hot," and the others not knowing how to react to Espn acting like her mom is there with her, as she is not ready to let go of her quite yet. Over time though, they begin to bond with each other and each others parent. Jim makes the boys happy by helping them with adventurous sports, and they slowly warm up to him, ultimately seeing him as a father figure they needed, while Lauren takes care of the girls, and helps Hilary to change her tomboyish look into a more feminine one drawing the attention of Jake, who becomes her boyfriend. Jim is pleasantly surprised by her change of appearance and he and Lauren begin to warm up to each other as time passes. They inadvertently get together for a couples massage and have fun with each other. Afterwards, the girls prove their affection for Lauren, when Lou asks for her to put her to bed. Lauren does so and sings "Somewhere Over the Rainbow," which, unknown to her, was the song Lous mom used to sing. The other girls pretend to sleep, while realizing how much they truly love Lauren. She returns this feeling when she maternally kisses each girls forehead as she says goodnight. Jim starts to realize the depth of his feelings for Lauren. On the last night of the trip, Lauren puts on a beautiful black dress that she admired earlier. She wears it that evening and receives admiration from everyone. While the children are pulled away for a kids-only buffet, Jake briefly smiles at Ginger, causing her to tearfully tell Eddy how truly happy she is, and them to agree that they are ultimately going to be a beautiful family. Meanwhile, Jim and Lauren are sat down for a romantic dinner, which Lauren soon discovers was actually planned by Jim specifically for her. They chat briefly about basic parenting techniques and then pull in for a kiss; however, at the last second, Jim pulls away, apologizing and explaining that he "cant do it". After returning home, Jim realizes he misses Lauren and that hes fallen in love with her, which he admits to his daughters who are ecstatic with the news. Although Espn is not fully ready to move on from her mothers passing, she also doesnt want her dad, or herself to lose Lauren. She starts to move on by telling her dad that her mom said that she had other things to do in Heaven and wouldnt be around as much. At the kids behest, Jim goes to Laurens house to give her flowers, only to find her ex-husband Mark there, pretending to be back with Lauren. Tyler gets excited to see Jim and wants to play ball, but Jim sadly leaves and Mark bails on his son again. Mark later tries to make a move on Lauren, but she refuses because of his continuous failure to be a good father, as well as having an affair with his receptionist during their marriage. That following Saturday, Lauren and Brendan go to support Tyler at his game, along with Jen, Dick, whom Jen has worked things out with, and his kids. Mark, once again, is a no-show. Jim and his daughters arrive to show encouragement, inspiring Tyler to hit the ball. Jim then finds Lauren and they admit to wanting to be together, and they finally kiss, to the happiness of their kids, who realize that they are already a family.
Blended (film)
2014