While serving in Vietnam, American soldier Nick Parker (Rutger Hauer) was blinded by a mortar explosion. Rescued by local villagers, he recovered his health and, though he remains blind, was trained to master his other senses and be an expert swordsman. Years later, having returned to the United States, he visits old army buddy Frank Deveraux (Terry OQuinn), only to find that Deveraux is missing. Parker meets Franks son Billy (Brandon Call) and his mother Lynn (Meg Foster), Franks ex-wife. Minutes later, Franks evil boss, Claude MacCreadys (Noble Willingham) henchman Slag (Randall "Tex" Cobb) arrives with two corrupt police officers to kidnap Billy to use as leverage over Frank. Nick stops them; the officers are killed, Billy is knocked unconscious, but Slag mortally wounds Billys mom before he escapes. With her last words, Lynn tells Nick to take Billy to his father in Reno, Nevada. At a rest stop on the way to Reno, Parker tells Billy about his mothers death. Billy runs away from Nick and is grabbed by Slag and some henchmen. Slag escapes as Nick rescues Billy a second time, and Billy and Nick (now called Uncle Nick) become fond of one another. They reach Reno and find Franks girlfriend Annie, who agrees to take them to Frank. After escaping yet another attempted kidnapping by MacCreadys men, Annie suggests they hide out at the home of her friend Colleen. Annie takes Nick to MacCreadys casino, where Frank is making MacCreadys drugs. Annie returns to Colleens to watch over Billy while Nick saves Frank. Nick and Frank are reunited; Frank takes the key ingredient in MacCreadys drugs and destroys the lab. Avoiding casino security, Nick and Frank escape and head to Colleens to reunite Billy with his dad; they find Colleen dead, Billy and Annie kidnapped, and a note instructing them to bring the drugs to MacCreadys mountain penthouse in exchange for Billy and Annie. Knowing it is an ambush, Nick and Frank arm themselves with homemade napalm bombs. After killing all of MacCreadys men, they find MacCready holding Billy and Annie at gunpoint. MacCready hired a Japanese assassin (Sho Kosugi) to defeat Nick, but after an epic swordfight between the two, Nick wins by electrocuting the assassin in a hot tub. Slag shoots Nick in the shoulder and Nick throws his sword at Slag, impaling him. MacCready then tries to interfere only to be stopped by Frank. Billy escapes his rope and throws Nicks sword to him, but it lands in the hot tub. As Slag reaches for his gun, Nick grabs hold of the assassins sword and slashes him, cutting him in half and causing him to fall out of a window. Frank is reunited with his son and Annie, and all are about leave for San Francisco. Nick drops his ticket, choosing not to go; Billy follows Nick, telling him that he needs him. Nick says that he is fond of Billy, but tells him to go back to his dad. He then crosses the street and vanishes as a bus passes him. Saddened by Nick leaving, Billy throws his dinosaur off the bridge where Nick catches it. Billy calls out to Nick one last time and tells him that hell miss him as Frank catches up to Billy and they embrace; Nick smiles, sheds a tear, puts on his sunglasses and heads to Reno on his own, with Billys dinosaur in his sling.
Blind Fury
1989