Nick Condon (James Cagney) is a journalist for the Tokyo Chronicle. He prints a story disclosing Japans plan to conquer the world. The newspaper is seized by Japanese officers. Condon gets the Tanaka Plan, a paper in which all the plans are described. The Japanese spies who follow him think that Ollie and Edith Miller (Wallace Ford and Rosemary DeCamp) are the ones who discovered the plan because they suddenly have a lot of money and are returning to the USA. When Condon goes to the ship to bid them farewell, he finds Edith dead. Hearing someone in the adjoining room, he tries to enter, but the intruder escapes. He has only a glimpse of a womans hand wearing a ring with a huge ruby. Returning home, he finds Ollie, badly beaten. Ollie gives him the Tanaka plan before dying. Premier Giichi Tanaka (John Emery) wants his plans to remain secret, and sends Col. Hideki Tojo (Robert Armstrong) Capt. Oshima (John Halloran) and Hijikata (Leonard Strong) to follow him everywhere. Meanwhile, Condon hides the document with the Tanaka plan behind the portrait of Emperor Hirohito in his house. Condon meets Iris Hilliard (Sylvia Sidney), half American and half Chinese. At first he suspects her of being the lady in the ship, then he doesnt. They fall in love. She seems to be betraying him, especially when Condon sees the ring with the ruby in her hand. Eventually it becomes clear that shes been sent by a senior politician who wants peace and was present when the Tanaka plan was devised. Condon leaves his job after ten days. When hes about to leave Japan he meets the politician and Iris in the harbour. The politician signs the document to prove its authentic. They are discovered by the Japanese army. Iris runs away with the document in a cargo ship which will take her safely out of Japan. To distract the Japanese officers, Condon fights his greatest enemy and tries to reach the American Embassy. Hes shot at by spies dressed in street clothes, but hes not killed. The consular adviser goes out of the Embassy and takes Condon inside, still alive, and the Japanese officers cant prevent it, because they couldnt find the Tanaka document when searching Condon.
Blood on the Sun
1945