After her prostitute mother and her john are clobbered to death with a hammer while they are asleep in bed, teenaged Ellie Masters is sent to an isolated orphanage run by Mrs. Deere, and her handyman, Tom Kredge. Taking an avid interest in her welfare is detective Calvin Carruthers. Taking almost no interest at all, is social worker Harold Mullins, who is completely under Mrs. Deeres thumb. Unbeknownst to Ellie, Mrs. Deere and Tom are both brutal sadists, who run the orphanage like a concentration camp and the strong possibility that her mothers hammer-wielding killer is now stalking her. The night before Ellies arrival, Ernest, one of the orphans, attempts to escape, but is chased into the woods by Tom, who severs his hand and leaves him to bleed to death. Ellie becomes acquainted with the other orphans, including Bunch, a 16 year old girl, Pete, and Walter, whom Ellie is immediately attracted to. While exploring the orphanage, Ellie happens upon an infirmary, but is quickly escorted out. Unbeknownst to her, the bodies in the beds are actually corpses of former residents whom Mrs. Deere and Tom keep in a freezer in the basement, and have posed in the beds when Harold visits for a headcount. Mrs. Deere also keeps the corpse of her dead husband in the freezer, whom she removes on occasion for company. Mrs. Deere takes an immediate disliking toward Ellie, prompting Ellie to make a plan to run away and find her father. Tom tells her he will help her leave, and asks her to meet him in the basement, where he attempts to rape her. Mrs. Deere interrupts and stops him. That night, Ellie awakens to a masked figure standing over her with a hammer. After stumbling in on Walter and Bunch in bed together, Ellie attempts to run away, but is locked in the basement by Kredge. When Harold inquires about missing children and threatens to involve the police, Tom and Mrs. Deere murder him and bring his body down to the freezer. The masked figure appears and kills Kredge; amidst the chaos, Ellie manages to escape, and the masked figure chases after her. Mrs. Deere drags Kredges body into the freezer, but is locked inside by one of the orphan girls. Ellie flees into the woods, where she discovers Ernests corpse. The masked figure confronts her, and is revealed to be Detective Carruthers. Carruthers tells Ellie that he knows that she is her mothers killer, and her guilt is why she has been having nightmares about the hammer. Ellie begs him to spare her, and he agrees to on the condition that she take his hand in marriage. She agrees, and Carruthers admits to Ellie that her mother had lost her virginity to him. As she realizes shes agreed to marry her father, Ellie laughs hysterically.
Blood and Lace
1971