While playing in a bar in St. Louis, jazz pianist Jigger Pine meets aspiring clarinetist Nickie Haroyen who tries to convince him to put together a jazz band. After a drunk patron starts a fight, Nickie and Jigger are thrown in jail with Jiggers drummer and bassist. They hear a prisoner singing a blues song and are inspired to set out for New Orleans where they hope to learn how to perfect an authentic bluesy sound. There they meet fast-talking trumpeter Leo and his wife Character who is a talented singer. Together, the quintet rides the rails, honing their technique in dive bars across the country. One day while sheltering in a boxcar they meet a mysterious stranger named Del, who robs them. But when they dont turn him in to the authorities, Del, impressed by their camaraderie, offers them a job in a New Jersey roadhouse called The Jungle. The group discovers that the roadhouse is actually owned by Dels former partners in crime, aspiring singer Kay, accomplice Sam and her crippled sidekick Brad. Del has escaped from jail to retrieve his share of a robbery the three committed, but when Kay tells him they have spent all the money, he decides to take over The Jungle and transform it into an illegal gambling club. Kay tries to rekindle her past romance with Del, but he rejects her and she turns her attention to Leo in hopes of making Del jealous. Although the band is happy playing their brand of jazz each night at the club, Character is worried about Leo and Kay. Jigger reveals to Leo that Character is pregnant and he decides to give up Kay. She soon sets her sights on Jigger, who is secretly in love with her. When Sam tries to get her to alert the police to Dels whereabouts, she tells Del, hoping to win him back. Sam is killed by Dels henchmen, and Del orders Kay to leave The Jungle. She convinces Jigger to quit the band and go with her to New York City to join a more commercial, mainstream jazz band. Although successful, Jigger is unhappy in his new life, feeling he is not playing authentic jazz. Kay eventually grows bored of life with Jigger and leaves him when he tells her he is quitting the band. He descends into alcoholism and has a mental breakdown. His friends find him and help nurse him back to health, hiding the fact that Characters baby has died. They return to The Jungle where Jigger begins playing again. Soon afterward, Kay shows up without any money, begging Del to take her back. He refuses, she threatens to turn him in, and he pulls a gun on her. Jigger comes to her defense and in the ensuing fight, when Del drops his gun, Kay picks it up and shoots and kills him. Jigger decides to protect Kay and help her escape from the police, but Brad hears their plans and realizes that Kay is leaving forever. The band shows up and try to talk Jigger out of leaving with Kay, revealing that Character lost the baby. They compare Jiggers mental problems with Brad being a cripple, stating that Brad has no choice about how he will end up but Jigger does have a choice. Brad overhears the band. He joins Kay in Dels car where she has been waiting for Jigger. Brad drives away with her into a violent storm, deliberately wrecking the car and killing them both. The band resolves to leave The Jungle behind and they return to their life on the road, happy to be playing their preferred version of jazz again.
Blues in the Night (1941 film)
1941