Dwight Evans, living as a beach vagrant, lives out of his car and scavenges for food and money. A policewoman tells him that Wade Cleland, the man who murdered Dwights parents, is to be released from prison. Dwight returns to his hometown in Virginia and watches the Clelands collect Wade from prison. Despite failing to steal a gun, Dwight follows Wade to a club restroom and, after a fight, fatally stabs him. Realizing he dropped his car keys in the club, Dwight steals the Clelands limousine; as he drives away, he discovers a teenage boy, William Cleland, in the back and lets him go. After cleaning himself up, Dwight visits his sister, Sam, for the first time in years and tells her that he has killed Wade. Sam is shocked but glad. As the killing has gone unreported on the news, Dwight surmises that the Clelands have decided to seek revenge without police involvement. Sam flees her home with her daughters and Dwight waits in the house for the Clelands attack. The Clelands arrive in the car Dwight left outside the club. Dwight escapes the attackers and runs over one of the Clelands, Teddy, in his car; he places the unconscious Teddy in the trunk. Before Dwight drives away, one of the attackers shoots him in the thigh with a crossbow. After attempting surgery on himself, Dwight has the wound treated at a hospital and returns to Sams house to clean up the mess. He tracks down an old high school friend, Ben, who lends him a rifle. On Bens land, Dwight interrogates Teddy at gunpoint. Teddy tells him that Wade was not his fathers killer; it was Wades now-deceased father, in revenge for Dwights father having an affair with Wade Sr.s wife. Teddy wrestles Dwights rifle from him, but Ben shoots him dead from a concealed position. To keep Ben from further involvement, Dwight removes the battery from Bens car. Dwight goes to the Cleland house and finds it empty. He searches it for guns, dumps them in a lake, and waits to ambush the Clelands. He leaves a message on the house answering machine asking them to leave Sam out of the dispute. Kris Cleland and her remaining children, Hope and Carl, return and listen to Dwights message; when it becomes clear that the Clelands intend to kill Sam, Dwight shoots Carl killing him. Dwight holds the women at gunpoint while explaining his dilemma about whether to kill the family members. William enters through another door and shoots Dwight with a shotgun using both barrels. Dwight, severely wounded, asks William to leave with his car and tells him they are half-brothers. After William leaves, Hope attempts to attack Dwight; Kris Cleland reaches for a TEC-9 hidden under a recliner and fires at Dwight, but she misses and instead kills Hope. Dwights next shot mortally wounds Kris, but she kills him before she dies. A postcard Dwight sent days earlier arrives at Sams house.
Blue Ruin
2013