The film is presented in a nonlinear narrative. Throughout the film, the present timeline is intercut with the story of how Dean and Cindy became involved. The following is a linear summary of the plot. Dean is a young hopeless romantic high school dropout, working for a moving company in Brooklyn. Cindy is an aspiring doctor studying pre-med, living with her constantly fighting parents and caring for her grandmother in Pennsylvania. She is also dating a fellow student named Bobby. During intercourse one day, Bobby didnt use protection causing an angered Cindy to break up with him. Dean and Cindy meet at her grandmothers nursing home while Dean is delivering a new residents furniture. He gives her his number but she never calls. They coincidentally meet again on a bus and begin dating shortly afterwards. The two fall deeply in love and soon after, a jealous Bobby finds out and beats Dean up. Cindy discovers she is pregnant and tells Dean the baby is unlikely to be his. At an abortion clinic, Cindy decides at the last moment to cancel the procedure. Dean comforts Cindy and tells her he doesnt mind if the child is not his and wants to begin a family with her. Cindy and Dean get married. Five years later, the couple lives in rural Pennsylvania with their daughter, Frankie and family dog, Megan. Dean paints houses for a living and struggles with alcohol while Cindy is a nurse at a clinic. Megan goes missing one day and is found dead on the road side, further straining the couples marriage. After watching old family videos, Dean insists on taking Cindy out for a romantic getaway at a motel so they can have some time off from their preoccupied lives, much to Cindys reluctance. At a liquor store, Cindy runs into Bobby and begins a conversation. Cindy and Dean get into an argument in the car when she mentions seeing Bobby again. At the motel, Dean constantly tries to seduce Cindy but she rebuffs him. They start fighting and she locks him outside the motel room. Cindy is called away by the clinic early in the morning. She takes the car and leaves a note for Dean. At the clinic, Cindys boss, Dr. Feinberg, talks to her about a position he had offered her. He asks her to move closer to work, suggesting they would be able to spend time together on weekends. Visibly upset, Cindy says she previously thought he offered her the position because of her job skills. Angered that Cindy left the motel without waking him, Dean shows up drunk at the clinic. He has a heated argument with Cindy which leads to a violent altercation with Dr. Feinberg. Dr. Feinberg kicks both Dean and Cindy out, firing the latter. Cindy demands a divorce while leaving the clinic. At her parents house, Dean tries to persuade Cindy to give the marriage another chance, asking if she wants their daughter to grow up in a broken home. Cindy says she does not want Frankie to grow up with parents who are so hateful to each other. After Dean reminds Cindy of their wedding vows, they hug and apologize. Cindy then pulls away asking for some space. Dean is seen walking away from the house while Frankie runs after him. Dean tells Frankie to go back to her mom despite Frankie begging him to stay. Dean challenges her to a race in an attempt to send her back to Cindy. He continues walking away while Cindy picks up an upset Frankie, who cries "I love him."
Blue Valentine (film)
2010