During a particularly intense Florida heatwave, inept lawyer Ned Racine begins an affair with Matty, wife of wealthy businessman, Edmund Walker. One night Ned arrives at the Walker mansion and playfully propositions a woman who he mistakenly thinks is Matty. The woman is Mary Ann Simpson, Mattys visiting high school friend. Soon after, Matty tells Ned she wants to divorce Edmund, but their prenuptial agreement would leave her with little money. Ned suggests murdering Edmund so Matty can inherit his wealth. He consults a shady former client, Teddy Lewis, an expert on incendiary devices, who supplies Ned with a bomb, though he strongly encourages Ned to abandon whatever he is scheming. Ned, aided by Matty, kills Edmund and moves the body to an abandoned building connected to Edmunds business interests. Ned detonates the bomb to look like Edmund died during a botched arson job. Soon after, Edmunds lawyer contacts Ned about a new will that Racine supposedly drafted for Edmund and was witnessed by Mary Ann Simpson. The new will was improperly prepared, making it null and void, resulting in Matty inheriting Edmunds entire fortune while disinheriting his surviving blood relatives. Matty later reveals to Ned that she forged the will, knowing it would be nullified. Two of Neds friends, assistant deputy prosecutor Peter Lowenstein, and police detective Oscar Grace, begin to suspect Ned is involved in Edmunds death. They inform Ned that Edmunds eyeglasses, which he always wore, are missing. Mary Ann Simpson has also disappeared. Nervous over the mounting evidence implicating him, and questioning Mattys loyalty, Ned happens upon a lawyer who once sued him over a mishandled legal case. The lawyer says that to make amends, he recommended Ned to Matty Walker, and admits he told her about Neds legal incompetence. Lowenstein informs Ned that on the night of the murder, hotel phone records show that repeated calls to Neds room went unanswered, thereby weakening his alibi. Teddy Lewis tells Ned about a woman wanting another incendiary device, and that he showed her how to booby trap a door. Matty calls Ned and says Edmunds glasses are in the Walker estate boathouse. Ned arrives later that night and spots a long twisted wire attached to the door. When Matty arrives, Ned asks her to retrieve the glasses. Matty walks toward the boathouse and disappears from view; the boathouse explodes. A body found inside is identified through dental records as Matty Walker (née Tyler). Now in prison, Ned, knowing Matty duped him, tries to convince Detective Grace that she is still alive. He lays out for him the scenario that the woman he knew as "Matty" assumed the real Matty Tylers identity in order to marry and murder Edmund Walker for his money. The "Mary Ann Simpson" that Ned met had discovered that Matty was using her identity. She was blackmailing Matty, only to be murdered by her. Had Ned been killed in the boathouse explosion, the police would have found both suspects bodies. Ned obtains a copy of Mattys high school year book. In it are photos of Mary Ann Simpson and Matty Tyler, confirming his suspicion that Mary Ann Simpson assumed Matty Tylers identity, eventually becoming Matty Walker. Below the real Mattys picture is the nickname "Smoocher" and "Ambition—To Graduate"; below Mary Anns is the nickname "The Vamp", swim-team membership, and "Ambition—To be rich and live in an exotic land". The real Mary Ann (Matty) is last seen lounging on a tropical beach, seated next to a man speaking Spanish.
Body Heat
1981