The film in 1910 New York. Raoul De Baere (Raft) is a coal miner who wants to be a dancer, and tries to persuade his brother Mike (Frawley) to manage him. He dreams of moving to Europe and opening a nightclub in Paris. He does not have a lot of success until he teams with a female partner, Lucy, and they make a success dancing in a beer garden in New Jersey. Lucy is attracted to Raoul but he does not want to mix business with pleasure.. Raoul travels to Paris where he makes a living dancing with elder women in nightclubs. He finds a dance partner, Leona (Drake), and they have success together as a dance team in night clubs. Leona wants to start a romance with Raoul but he refuses. When Leona threatens to quit, Mike suggests Raoul start a romantic relationship with her, which he does, though he dislikes Leonas jealousy and wage demands. A former Ziegfield chorus girl, Helen Hathaway (Lombard), approaches Raoul, suggesting they team up, saying she is a better dancer than Leona. Raoul agrees and he quits his Paris nightclub to go to England with Helen, dumping Leona. Raoul is attracted to Helen but, not wanting a repeat of the Leona situation, makes her promise that if he ever makes a move on her, she should reject him. She agrees and the two make a successful dance team. They appear on the bill with Annette (Sally Rand), who does a "fan dance" and who suggests she and Raoul team up, pointing out Lord Coray is romantically interested in Helen. Raoul is jealous. While holidaying in Belgium, Raoul and Helen fall in love and start an affair. Raoul sets up his own night club in Paris and he and Helen devise a very athletic routine to be accompanied by Ravels Boléro (an anachronism, as the composition was not written until 1928). The night they are meant to debut it, World War One breaks out and the audience are talking about it instead of paying attention to the dance. Raoul breaks off mid performance, and make a patriotic speech, promising to not dance until te war is over. Helen is touched by Raouls patriotism. However, when she finds out he just did it for patriotism she breaks up with him and goes to work as a nurse. Raoul serves in the army during the war and is wounded. On Armistice Day, a doctor tells him if he ever exerts himself again, he will die. After the war he tries to find Helen and restart his dancing career. He cannot find her but he runs into Leona, and they team up again. Helen marries Lord Robert Coray (Milland). Raoul opens a smart nightclub in Paris. On the opening night, as he is about to start the show, he finds Lenora drunk and unable to perform. Fortunately, Helen is in the audience and agrees to stand in. Raoul hopes that she will rejoin him. Desperate to impress the audience, he overdoes his athletic routine, collapses, and dies of heart failure.
Bolero (1934 film)
1934