Daffy is enjoying his "daffy" nature around the forest. Later, Porky pulls up and sets up camp to enjoy the countryside. He paints a landscape picture, briefly interrupted when Daffy poses. Taking a hint, Daffy rides off. Daffy then comes back in and tells Porky he may not paint "his" lakes, but the mountains are okay since he doesnt own them. Porky resumes painting, but Daffy comes back in again, dressed as "the old man of the mountains"—trying to get the mountains out of Porkys painting. Porky sees through the disguise and tries to use a shotgun against Daffy, but Daffy runs out of scene and runs back in as a sheriff, who calls for an executioner. The sheriff walks out and the executioner (Daffy again) appears with an axe. At the last moment, Porky is "saved" by Pocahontas (Daffy yet again). However, when "Captain John Smith" doesnt agree to marry "her", Daffy starts making war whoops—until Porky shuts him up. Porky then decides to try fishing, putting a bait attached to a bell. Daffy fools Porky twice by ringing the bell and Porky gets the better of Daffy by trying to chop him with an axe, but Daffy then rings his own bell—only to be surprised when Porky does catch a fish. Daffy then asks about the various licenses Porky has. Daffy annoys Porky, who responds by throwing a rock at Daffy, but Daffy makes out like theyre in a baseball game, and encourages Porky as Joe DiMaggio to slide for home. Porky realizes too late that hes not really DiMaggio and lands in a mud puddle. Porky then starts packing up his trailer to get away from Daffy. Daffy climbs into Porkys engine, deliberately throws out the engine and closes the hood. Porky tries starting the car, but gets Daffys stalled motor sound. When Daffy makes the sound while Porky is out of the car, Porky jumps in, makes some "adjustments", then climbs back in the car. Having finally gotten the better of the duck, Porky starts the car again, pulling on the choke lever, which causes a mechanical arm to pop out and choke Daffy, who is now wired into the car and is powering it. Daffy mentions that Porky has absolutely no right to do this, until yet another license pops out, showing that Porky does indeed have a license to use Daffy as a motor.
Boobs in the Woods
1950