In November 1999, tourists and fans of The Blair Witch Project descend on the small town of Burkittsville, Maryland, where the film is set. Local resident Jeff, a former psychiatric patient and obsessed fan, orchestrates a group tour of locations featured in the film. Among the group are graduate students Stephen and his pregnant girlfriend, Tristen, who are researching mythology and mass hysteria; Erica, the Wiccan daughter of an Episcopal minister; and Kim, a goth psychic. They camp for the night in the ruins of Rustin Parrs house, where Jeff has placed surveillance cameras, hoping to capture any supernatural occurrences. Jeff becomes unnerved when he notices a large tree located in the center of the houses foundation, claiming it was not there before. That night, another tour group arrives at the ruins claiming to have jurisdiction over the grounds; Jeff and Stephen mislead them to instead visit Coffin Rock, lying and saying they witnessed something horrifying there earlier. The other tour group believes them, and leaves for Coffin Rock. After drinking and smoking marijuana all night, the group awaken in the morning to find Stephen and Tristens research documents shredded and strewn through the woods, and Jeffs cameras destroyed. Kim has a psychic inclination that the tapes are buried under the foundation, the same place that The Blair Witch Project footage was allegedly discovered; when Jeff inspects the area, he finds his tapes. The groups debate over the nights events is interrupted when Tristen suffers a miscarriage, and they rush her to the Burkitsville hospital. In her hospital room, Tristen sees a pale young girl walking backward. After she is discharged, the group retreat to Jeffs home, an abandoned broom factory against a steep hill in the woods. While Tristen rests, the group review the footage recorded the night before, and find a visual anomaly of what appears to be a naked woman swinging around the tree in the center of the foundation; inexplicably, the tree appears in the footage as only a sapling. Jeff slows the footage down, revealing the woman to be Erica. Distraught, Erica claims she has no memory of such event, and goes to pray in another room. When Kim tries to console her, Erica reveals rash-like symbols covering her body, and proclaims the group has been marked for death. Unnerved, Kim borrows Jeffs van to pick up coffee and alcohol in town. At the country store, she gets into a heated argument with the cashier. While driving away, she swerves to avoid hitting multiple children walking on the road, and crashes the van into a tree. While examining the busted fender, Kim notices the children have disappeared. Upon returning to Jeffs, she finds a bloody nail file stuck among the bottles of beer she purchased. The following morning, Jeff looks outside and sees the front end of his van entirely caved in, to the point that it is undriveable; Kim insists that she merely dented the fender. The group realize Erica is mysteriously absent, and begin searching for her. Kim finds her clothing on the floor, surrounded by lit candles. They attempt to call Ericas father at his office but are told by his secretary that he has no children. Meanwhile, Tristens disposition grows increasingly bizarre. The county sheriff calls Jeff, informing him the other tour group was found disembowled on Coffin Rock, and implies Jeff is involved. Shortly after, the four see Erica spinning around a tree outside. Stephen rushes to confront her, but the walkway connecting the building to the hill collapses under him. He calls for Tristen but she walks away without any regard while Jeff and Kim pull him to safety. Later while searching through a drawer, Kim finds a set of surveillance dossiers on herself and the others. She confronts Jeff, but he denies knowing the source of them. Shortly after, the group discovers Ericas corpse in a closet. Tristen begins chanting about widdershins and speaking backwards; this leads Kim to suggest they play Jeffs damaged tapes in reverse. Upon doing so, they find the footage shows the group descending into a satantic ritual and frenzied orgy led by Tristen. When they attempt to confront Tristen, she alternately pleads and goads them; Jeff, convinced Tristen is possessed by the Blair Witch, begins filming the confrontation with a handheld camera, attempting to elicit a confession in Ericas death. Stephen accuses Tristen of killing their baby, and the four follow Tristen to the second floor, where she ties a rope around her neck and taunts Stephen, daring him to push her. In a fit of rage, he pushes her over the balcony, killing her by breaking her neck. Later, Jeff, Stephen, and Kim are arrested and interrogated by police over the deaths of Tristen, Erica, and the other tour group. Each claim to detectives that Tristen was possessed by the witch and was responsible. Their accounts are contradicted by various video footage: Security cameras captured Kim murdering the store cashier with her own nail file, while Jeffs home monitors show him, nude, hiding Ericas body in the closet; the DV footage Jeff filmed during Tristens confrontation shows her pleading for her life as they accuse her of being a witch, ending in Stephen pushing her to her death.
Book of Shadows: Blair Witch 2
2000