Advertisement executive Marcus tells his assistant to send flowers to nine different women, with cards reading "only thinking of you". When he enters his office, Nelson, one of the creative minds also in Marcus department, shows Marcus a re-cut of an ad. Marcus tells Nelson he must re-edit the risqué ad, as some of the material may be offensive to women and may also cause problems with the FCC. Nelson reluctantly agrees. The next day, Marcus meets Lady Eloise, who will soon be acquiring the company in a business merger. She suggests that Marcus may be promoted and invites him to her home. Marcus realizes she intends to have her way with him, and, thinking of the promotion, spends the night with her. The next day at work, he meets Jacqueline Broyer (Robin Givens), a beautiful woman who tells Marcus that Lady Eloise is a figurehead who uses her image to her advantage. Marcus realizes that Jacqueline is going to be given the job he wanted and will soon become his boss. At the merger party, Marcus tells his friends Tyler and Gerard he is considering resigning over not getting the promotion. While there, Jacqueline introduces him to Angela Lewis, who works in the art department, and tells him the two of them should be working together. Everyone is introduced to Strangé, the wild fashion diva who has been chosen as the new face of Lady Eloise Cosmetics. While looking for Jacqueline, Marcus bumps into Angela, and when he spots Jacqueline, introduces Angela to Gerard so that he can go and catch up with her. Though Jacqueline tells him she does not date co-workers, Marcus believes he will be the exception because of her flirtatiousness. Jacqueline tells Marcus they should go over some of their work together, and Marcus suggests they do it at his place over dinner. Marcus finds out Angela and Gerard will be going out that night. Both couples meet that evening, and, Gerard, who is not as successful with women as Marcus, ends up having the better evening with Angela, while Jacqueline and Marcus eat dinner in front of the TV, which does not leave much time for them to establish any sort of chemistry. Later, the two are sent on a business trip in New Orleans, and they eventually have sex while there. Assuming they are now a couple, Marcus is shocked when Jacqueline is unenthusiastic and suggests taking their relationship slowly. While he feels he is falling in love, he does not understand how she can be so careless and inconsiderate about his feelings. After Marcus discovers Jacqueline has discussed their personal business with Strangé, he tells Jacqueline they should take a break for a while. Jacqueline bluntly tells Marcus, "Its over." Distraught about their breakup, Marcus work ethic begins to lag, and after he ruins a major business proposal Jacqueline gives him a few weeks off work to get himself together. Marcus hangs out with Angela, who tries to bring him out of his funk. On Thanksgiving, Marcus, Angela, Tyler, Gerard, and Gerards parents meet for dinner. While eating, Angela and Gerard deny being a couple when Gerards father assumes they are. When everyone else leaves, Marcus and Angela clean up and fall asleep on the couch together. When they wake up, the two make out. While out with Gerard and Tyler, Marcus tells Gerard he and Angela are going out together, which upsets Gerard, knowing Marcus past with women. Marcus, now much more relaxed and confident, becomes very attractive to Jacqueline again, and as he had not put away his feelings for her, the two sleep together. The next day, Angela confronts Marcus about his whereabouts. Upset by how Marcus makes himself out to be the victim, Angela angrily leaves. Marcus tries to go back to Jacqueline, then realizes his feelings for her are not the same as his love for Angela. Later, Marcus talks to Gerard, and Gerard tells him that Angela got a promotion at a new company. Marcus apologizes to Gerard, and the two make up for their argument. He goes to Angelas new job, and though at first she is very cold towards him, she finally forgives him, and the two get back together.
Boomerang (1992 film)
1992