At the behest of the Kazakh Ministry of Information, reporter Borat Sagdiyev leaves Kazakhstan for the United States, which he called "Greatest Country in the World", the "U, S and A", to make a documentary. He leaves behind his wife Oksana and other inhabitants of his village. His companions are his producer Azamat Bagatov and a pet hen. In New York, Borat sees an episode of Baywatch on TV and immediately falls in love with Pamela Andersons character, C. J. Parker. While interviewing and mocking a panel of feminists, he learns of the actresss name and her residence in California. Borat is then informed by telegram that Oksana has been killed by a bear. Delighted, he resolves to travel to California and make Pam Anderson his new wife. Azamat is afraid of flying because of the September 11, 2001, attacks, which he believes were the work of Jews. Borat takes driving lessons and buys a dilapidated ice-cream truck for the journey. During the trip, Borat acquires a Baywatch booklet and continues gathering footage for his documentary. He meets gay pride parade participants, politicians Alan Keyes and Bob Barr, and African American youths. Borat is also interviewed at a live local television station and proceeds to disrupt the weather report. Visiting a rodeo, Borat excites the crowd with jingoistic remarks, but then sings a fictional Kazakhstani national anthem to the tune of "The Star-Spangled Banner", receiving a strong negative reaction. Staying at a bed-and-breakfast, Borat and Azamat are stunned to learn their hosts are Jewish. The two escape after throwing money at two cockroaches, believing they are their hosts transformed. Borat attempts to buy a handgun to defend himself, but is turned away because he is not an American citizen, so he buys a bear instead. An etiquette coach suggests Borat attend a private dinner at an eating club in the South. During the dinner, he unintentionally offends the other guests. When he lets Luenell, an African-American prostitute, into the house and shows her to the table, they both get kicked out. Borat befriends Luenell, and she invites him into a relationship with her, but he tells her that he is in love with someone else. Borat then visits an antique shop where he clumsily breaks various Confederate heritage items, almost bankrupting the documentary. At a hotel, Borat, just out of the bath, sees Azamat masturbating over a picture of Pamela Anderson. An angry Borat accidentally reveals his real motive for travelling to California. Azamat becomes livid at Borats deception, and the situation escalates into a nude brawl which spills out into the hallway, a crowded elevator, and then into a packed convention ballroom. Azamat abandons Borat, taking his passport, all of their money, and their bear (whose head is later seen inside Azamats motel refrigerator). Borats truck runs out of gas, and he begins to hitchhike to California. He is soon picked up by drunken fraternity brothers from the University of South Carolina. On learning the reason for his trip, they show him the Pam and Tommy sex tape which reveals that she is not a virgin. Despondent, Borat burns the Baywatch booklet and, by mistake, his return ticket to Kazakhstan. Borat attends a United Pentecostal camp meeting, at which Republican U.S. Representative Chip Pickering and Mississippi Supreme Court Chief Justice James W. Smith, Jr. are present. He regains his faith, and forgives Azamat and Pamela. He accompanies church members on a bus to Los Angeles and disembarks to find Azamat dressed as Oliver Hardy (though Borat thinks that he is dressed as Adolf Hitler). The two reconcile and Azamat tells Borat where to find Pamela Anderson. Borat finally comes face-to-face with Anderson at a book signing at a Virgin Megastore. After showing Anderson his "traditional marriage sack", Borat pursues her throughout the store in an attempt to abduct her until security guards intervene. Borat visits Luenell and they return to Kazakhstan together, bringing back American customs and technology. This includes the apparent conversion of the people to Christianity (the Kazakh version of which includes crucifixion and torturing of Jews) and the introduction of computer-based technology, such as iPods, laptop computers and a high-definition LCD television.
Borat! Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan
2006