The film, shot partially in the Los Angeles suburb of Inglewood, California, and produced with the cooperation of the citys police department and the Inglewood Unified School District, is narrated by a police detective on his way to a school meeting to discuss the issue of sexual predators who attempt to lure young adolescent males. Aside from the films early 1960s-culturally influenced conclusion that homosexual men are inherently dangerous to young boys the film has been noted for its unusual perception of police procedure: the first boy, named Jimmy, was supposedly playing a game of ball and did not feel like walking home, so he decided to "thumb" a ride. A few moments later, a car pulls up and Jimmy enters the strangers car. Jimmy and the stranger start a conversation while on the way to Jimmys house. They arrive at his house and Jimmy gets out of the strangers car. The following day, the stranger was in his car waiting for him. Jimmy noticed that it was the same car and decided to ride once again. Instead of going straight to Jimmys house, "They went to a drive-in and the stranger treated him to a Coke." The scene after shows ducks in a pond, and then switches to Jimmy and the stranger fishing together on a dock. Jimmy and the stranger (Ralph) reveal their names when they pull out their lunch. Jimmy then eats a sandwich, while Ralph pulls out a deck of "pornographic pictures." Later, Jimmy is taken to a hotel with Ralph, presumably to be molested, and later reports the crime. The perpetrator is arrested; the victim is put on probation. Another incautious, unsuspecting boy, Mike, is seen playing a game of basketball with a group of friends while ignoring a man watching them. The group decides to leave, but Mike decides to stay and practice. The man then joins Mike, which is better than playing alone, according to Mike. Mike then decides to leave, and the stranger offers him a ride home. Mike accepts the offer, and enters the vehicle. Mike is supposedly killed that night, having "traded his life for a newspaper headline". A third boy, Denny, is tricked into entering a mans car while he and his friend were sorting out newspapers. The car leaves, and the friend writes down the licence plate number. Dennys friend is later delivering papers and talks to Dennys mother, who is seen watering her lawn. Dennys mother decides to go inside and call the police. Right after Dennys mother called the police, the car is quickly spotted, and the stranger is arrested. A fourth boy is Bobby, who was in a beachside restroom where he and his friends were changing. Bobbys friends decide to head for home together, while Bobby decides to take a "shortcut" under a pier. As Bobby is walking to the shortcut, he notices that a man, who was seen at the restroom, was following him. Bobby then waves to his friends, and runs to join them.  The film equates homosexuals with child molesters and hebephiles, repeatedly describing homosexuality as a mental illness. True to the stereotypes of its time, the gay men in the film have mustaches, sunglasses and/or bow ties. The film has other odd moments, probably the result of its $1,000 budget—a minuscule sum for a short film, even in 1961. Most notably, in the third scenario, the stranger is seen driving the same car (a 1959 Chevrolet Biscayne) as the detective. Davis was friendly with the police in Southern California and would accept their suggestions of topics to make films about, allowing them to guide the films message and development. A full-color version of the film was made in 1973, titled Boys Aware, using the same script and soundtrack with different actors. A third edition of the film was produced in 1979.
Boys Beware
1961