Early one morning, a taxi pulls up at Tiffany & Co. on Fifth Avenue in New York City, from which elegantly dressed Holly Golightly (Audrey Hepburn) emerges carrying a paper bag with her breakfast. After looking into the shops windows while eating her bun and sipping her coffee, she strolls home. Outside her apartment, she fends off Sid Arbuck (Claude Stroud), her date from the disastrous night before. Inside the apartment building, Holly cant find her keys so she buzzes her landlord, Mr. Yunioshi (Mickey Rooney), who begrudgingly lets her in. Later, she is awakened by new neighbor Paul Varjak (George Peppard), who rings her doorbell to get into the building. The pair chat as she dresses to leave for her weekly visit to Sally Tomato (Alan Reed), a mobster incarcerated at Sing Sing prison. Tomatos lawyer pays her $100 a week to deliver "the weather report".  As she is leaving for Sing Sing, Holly is introduced to Pauls "decorator", wealthy older woman Emily Eustace Failenson (Patricia Neal), whom Paul nicknames "2E". That night, Holly goes out onto the fire escape to elude an over-eager date (Mel Blanc). She peeks into Pauls apartment and sees 2E leaving money and kissing Paul goodbye. After 2E leaves, Holly enters Pauls apartment and learns he is a writer who has not had anything published since a book of vignettes five years before. Holly, in turn, explains she is trying to save money to support her brother Fred. The pair fall asleep, but are awakened when Holly has a nightmare about Fred. When Paul questions her about this, Holly chides him for prying and leaves. She later buys Paul a typewriter ribbon to apologize and invites him to a lively party at her apartment. There, Paul meets her Hollywood agent, O. J. Berman (Martin Balsam), who describes Hollys transformation from country girl into Manhattan socialite. He is also introduced to José da Silva Pereira (José Luis de Vilallonga), a wealthy Brazilian politician, and Rusty Trawler (Stanley Adams), the "ninth richest man in America under 50". In the days that follow, Paul and Holly become closer. The next day, 2E enters Pauls apartment, worried she is being followed. Paul tells her he will investigate and eventually confronts Doc Golightly (Buddy Ebsen), Hollys estranged husband. Doc explains Hollys real name is Lula Mae Barnes and that they were married when she was 14. He wants to take her back to rural Texas, as her brother Fred will be returning in a few months after Army service. After Paul reunites Holly and Doc, she tells Paul the marriage was annulled. At the Greyhound bus station, she tells Doc she will not return to Texas with him and Doc leaves town broken-hearted. After drinking at a club, Paul and Holly return to her apartment, where she drunkenly tells him she plans to marry Trawler for his money. A few days later, Paul learns one of his short stories will be published. On the way to tell Holly, he sees a newspaper headline stating Trawler has married someone else. Holly and Paul agree to spend the day together, taking turns doing things each has never done before, including visiting the library. At Tiffanys, Paul has the ring from Doc Golightlys box of Cracker Jack engraved as a present for Holly. After spending the night together, he awakens to find her gone. When 2E arrives, Paul ends their relationship. She calmly accepts, having earlier concluded he and some other woman are in love. Holly schemes to marry José for his money, which angers Paul. After Holly receives a telegram notifying her of Freds death, she trashes her apartment. Months later, Paul has moved out. He is invited to dinner by Holly, who is leaving the next morning for Brazil to continue her relationship with José. However, they are arrested in connection with Sally Tomatos drug ring, and Holly spends the night in jail. The next morning, Holly is released on bail and finds Paul waiting, and they take a cab. He has her cat and a letter from José explaining he must end their relationship due to her arrest. Holly insists she will go to Brazil anyway, asks the cab to pull over, and releases the cat into the rain. Paul confronts Holly about his love and her behavior, then gets out of the cab in the pouring rain and leaves, tossing the engraved Cracker Jack ring into her lap and telling her to examine her life. She goes through a decision making moment, puts on the ring, and runs after Paul, who has gone looking for the cat. She searches the alley and finally finds the cat. Paul and Holly stand in the rain, and with the cat tucked into Hollys coat, look into each others eyes and share a kiss.
Breakfast at Tiffany's (film)
1961