In 2018, in a dystopian, futuristic Detroit, abandoned brick mansions left from better times house only the most dangerous criminals. Unable to control the crime, city officials built a colossal containment wall that is 40 FT tall and has been constructed around this area known as the projects, or the "no go zone" to protect the rest of the city. Police monitor all movement in and out of Brick Mansions in which schools and hospitals in this dangerous area are shut down. For undercover cop Damien Collier (Paul Walker), every day is a battle against corruption after the death of his father. For French-Caribbean ex-convict Lino (David Belle), every day is a fight to live an honest life. Lino starred in District B13 in which he continues his role of a muscular man that is a master of building hoping, fighting, and acrobatics which brings excitement and action to the movie. Damien maintains a charming, intelligent, and consistent character throughout the film. When drug kingpin Tremaine Alexander (RZA) kidnaps Linos girlfriend and holds her captive as Lino stole a massive amount of heroin and emptied it down a bathtub, Damien reluctantly accepts Linos help and together they struggle to save Linos girlfriend and stop a sinister plot that involves a stolen bomb set to destroy the entire city. Initially Lino was deceived by trusted police officials as he was under the assumption that Tremaine was wanted for being a highly dangerous criminal. Lino was not aware that Tremaine had been making payments to the police station as police officials were corrupt. Formerly trusted police officials allow Tremaine to leave with Linos girlfriend and lock Lino up in a prison cell. Lino kills a police official in attempt to escape and save his girlfriend. Lino is put in the back of a police van where he meets Damien, an under cover cop playing the role of another prisoner. Damien uncuffs his handcuffs, throws the police out of the car, and then helps Lino to escape. At first, Damien and Lino fight both verbally and physically, but they quickly learn how to work together for the greater good. Moreover, there is also some girl fighting action between Linos Spanish waitress girlfriend and Tremaines assistant that portrays herself to be bisexual. To overcome Tremaine is not an easy task as he is an incredibly powerful leader with an army of heavily armed individuals ready to protect him at any cost. Eventually, with the help of Lino and Tremaine, Damien realizes at the end of the film that his father was killed by his fellow officers that he trusted and that the mayor of Detroit was behind the plot. Damien, Lino and Tremaine confront the mayor and manage to prove his true intentions and have him publicly humiliated on the news after compromising plotting an attack on Brick Mansions precedence and then he is arrested. Brick Mansions is welcomed back into the city, with Damien and Lino continuing their friendship. Tremaine runs for mayor of Detroit 2018 while promoting the idea of equality and freedom.
Brick Mansions
2014