The movie begins about a year after the events of the first story. The Davis family has fit in very well with the townspeople of Lucifer Falls. *Almost* all of them, except for a grumpy general store owner, Tom Lynch (played by Eugene Levy) who has a great disdain for Carlton and the growing popularity hes gained among the townspeople. But that is the least of their worries, as their daughter Jennifer, and two younger sons, Corwin and Aurie, begin to sense that Mr. Boogedy may return for revenge. Though both parents shrug off the idea, even after getting a warning from a fortune teller Madeleinska (played by Karen Kondazain). The two boys share a nightmare in which they find a strange glowing key that leads them to a foggy graveyard. A large statue of Boogedy comes to life and attempts to attack them while the ghost of Jonathan calls to them. They awaken, finding the key (not glowing) in the basement as the two try desperately to convince their parents that Boogedy is back.  The children spend the day wandering around town when they reach a cemetery on the outskirts. The caretaker, Lazarus, shows them to the ominous statue of William Hanover, the real name of Mr. Boogedy. To put an end to their childrens beliefs, Carlton and Eloise use their faux seance both to prove that Boogedy is gone. However, the two unwittingly awake his spirit while Carlton impersonates him after the statue is seen splitting open; which may have been helped when Lynch tried to take out their stores power. Possessed by Mr. Boogedy, Carlton displays very strange and frightening behavior until he laughs the entity away with help from Eloises brother, Elmer. At the Lucyfest Carnival, Mr. Boogedy, through Lynch, brings the wax horror icons in the Daviss newly acquired storefront to life. Boogedys spirit becomes unleashed as the figures and he destroy the carnival. Seeing Eloise dressed as The Widow Marian, he hypnotizes and summons her to him. Using a remorseful Lynchs help and Madeleinskas assistance, the group locates Boogedy and Eloise near his statue. They use the key to transport there with Jennifer dressed as a Marian decoy. After Jennifer takes his attention from her mother, the group pulls both to safety and banish Boogedys spirit using the key. Jonathans ghost plays one last joke as the group leaves.
Bride of Boogedy
1987