Bill McAllister is a quick talking nephew of a rich Uncle to has a shipping business, and to which he lives off of as a young man by charging most of his expenses ....he only has a single dollar saved in his sleeve. Bill meets and falls for a young lady named Hazel who is the daughter of a large apple baron...and although Hazel thinks she is in love with a Dr. Jenkins, Bill convinces Dr. Jenkins that he really doesnt want to get married and then woos Hazel into falling in love with himself. Bill is a very fast talking, quick thinking person who uses flattery to impress people and get them to agree to his ideas....or at least stall off his creditors and distractors from talking action against him. When Hazels rich father tries to talk Hazel out of marrying Bill, Bill fast talks his soon to be father in law and assures him that he can take care of their daughter...and although the father does not want them to marry, Bill and Hazel elope and set up housekeeping in an apartment even though Bill does not have a job... Hazels father arranges for Bill to get job using Bills car to perform exterminating work...and Hazel assures her dad that Bill will take the job and prove he is capable of holding a job or Hazel will leave Bill and return to her parents home. When Bill returns to their apartment that same evening, he assures his wife that he has paid his past due rents by selling his car and buying a tent so that they can go on an extended camping trip as a honeymoon. Hazel is distraught that he has sold their car to pay their back rent and therefore will not be able to take the new job when both Bills Uncle and Hazels parents show up at their apartment. Bills Uncle is their to demand that Bill pay all the charges he has been charging to his Uncle, and Hazels parents are there to make sure Bill agrees to take the new job they have arranged. After some fast talking Bill agrees to take the job, but tells both his Uncle who ships apples and Hazels father who is an apple baron that he has invented a new way to ship apples using a special type of packing which will keep the apples fresh and undamaged longer. Bills idea is a great hit and makes both men happy and the film ends with Bill and Hazel happily in love with both her parents and his Uncle all pleased with Bill and the marriage.
Brides Are Like That
1940