The film begins shortly before Bridgets mothers (Gemma Jones) annual Turkey Curry Buffet. Bridget (Renée Zellweger) is ecstatic about her relationship with Mark Darcy (Colin Firth). However, Bridgets confidence in her relationship is shattered when she meets Marks assistant, a beautiful, slim and quick witted Australian named Rebecca Gillies (Jacinda Barrett). Bridget meets her ex, Daniel Cleaver (Hugh Grant), at her job for TV morning show Sit-Up Britain and is offered a position alongside Cleaver in a new travel tv series. Bridget initially refuses and declares that Daniel is a "deceitful, sexist, disgusting specimen of humanity". Bridget eventually relents and agrees to sign on to the project, despite her friends serious misgivings. Bridget is delighted when Mark invites her to the "Law Council Dinner", assuming he will propose afterwards, but the night does not end well. She is overdressed for the event, wearing a gold dress while everyone else is wearing serious lawyer black; the hairdresser has ruined her hair, which her friends hurriedly repair at her flat; she heavily rouges her cheeks in the taxi and then as a final debacle, makes a critical error in the trivial quiz that almost causes her team to lose with a question about Madonna. Rebecca Gillies wins the night by chiming in with the correct answer. Bridgets confidence is thoroughly deflated. After the "Law Council Dinner", Mark and Bridget have an argument and she walks away from him in a huff. Mark goes to Bridgets apartment, apologizes, and tells her he loves her for the first time. Later in the night, Mark asks Bridget if shed like to go on a ski holiday in Vorarlberg, Austria. Once on the slopes, she learns Rebecca recommended the vacation spot to Mark. While on the holiday, Bridget suspects shes pregnant; after an argument concerning the upbringing and education of their future children, the pregnancy test proves negative. After they return home, Bridget and Mark attended a scheduled lunch with both of their parents. When the subject of marriage comes up during conversation, Bridget is hurt by Marks comment that its not something theyre even thinking about yet. Bridget overhears a message from Rebecca on Marks answering machine and discusses it with her friends, who advise Bridget that "If Mark says I refuse to dignify that question with an answer, then you know hes having an affair". Bridget asks the question, Mark responds predictably and Bridget breaks up with him. She travels to Thailand with her friend, Shazzer (Sally Phillips) and Daniel Cleaver to film "The Smooth Guide". Bridget and Daniel film the show, visit several exotic locations and flirt while off duty. Bridget loses faith in Daniel again when she is in his hotel room and while getting ready to romance, notices that a Thai prostitute has arrived for him. She decides he has not changed. During the Thailand vacation, Shazzer has a fling with a younger British man called Jed. While packing up for their trip back home, Shazzer asks Bridget to put Jeds (Paul Nicholls) gift in her bag. Bridget is arrested and sent to a Thai prison after airport security dogs detect a large stash of cocaine inside the gift. In prison, Bridget spends her time sharing stories with the inmates, giving relationship advice and teaching them how to sing and dance to Madonnas "Like a Virgin". Mark arrives to tell Bridget that his superiors have sent him to put her release in motion. Bridget identifies Jed in a picture as the man who gave Shazzer the hidden cocaine. Mark states that he was "just the messenger" and after confirming Jeds identity and that Bridget "spent the night with Daniel Cleaver", declares that her sex life does not interest him. Bridget does not protest or correct his presumption. In Britain, Mark confronts Daniel for not helping Bridget when she was arrested, and they start a fight outside a museum. Eventually, Daniel swears off Bridget for good and sarcastically suggests to Mark "why dont you just marry her". Bridget arrives at Heathrow Airport as an international human rights celebrity. She is greeted by her parents, who have been busy planning their vow renewal ceremony. Her mother apologises for not making a bigger effort to participate in Bridgets jail release campaign, saying shes been busy. At home, Bridget is surprised by her friends, who inform her that Mark personally tracked down Jed the drug trafficker, arranged for his custody and extradition, and force Jed to admit Bridgets innocence. Hopeful that Mark still loves her, Bridget immediately runs to his house. She finds Rebecca there and assumes that there is a romantic relationship between Mark and her. Rebecca reveals that she is not seeking an affair with Mark; she is actually infatuated with Bridget and kisses her. Bridget is flattered but politely turns her down. Bridget confronts Mark at his legal chambers and asks him to take her back. Mark proposes to Bridget and she accepts. The film ends with Bridgets parents renewing their vows and Bridget catching the bouquet outside while snow is falling.
Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason (film)
2004