During World War II, Larry Nevins, an American sergeant, is blinded by a German sniper while fighting in North Africa. He is taken to a Pennsylvania hospital for other blinded soldiers, where he struggles to accept and come to terms with his disability. After initial despondency, Larry is taught to orient himself and walk through the grounds and in town by memorization and use of a cane. He befriends Joe Morgan, another blinded veteran, and Judy, a local bank teller who also volunteers at socializing with disabled soldiers. One day Larry, unaware that Joe is black, utters a racial slur. This causes a huge rift between Larry and others. Meanwhile, he progresses well in his recovery, passing a crucial test to see how well he can handle himself on the street. He is cleared for furlough, so Judy takes him to spend a weekend at her sisters nearby cabin, where he goes fishing and is entertained by her family. From Judys brother-in-law, Larry learns of a very successful blind lawyer, giving him hope for the future. After dinner, Judy reveals her love for him. Larry tells her he needs more security and family support and already has a fiancee in his Florida hometown. Somewhat dispirited, he goes home and has a rough time dealing with the racial attitudes of his Southern parents and friends. His fiancees family is having doubts about his fitness as a son-in-law, and his parents are downcast because of his disability. Larry is happy to see his fiancee, Chris, though he still thinks of Judy. After a bad experience at his homecoming party, he tells Chris the difficulties they can expect with his disability, and that he wants to relocate rather than be patronized with a menial local job her successful father has offered him. After some thought, Chris tells Larry that she doesnt feel strong enough to marry and move far away with him while he struggles to make a new life for both of them. Returning to the hospital, Larry takes a side trip to Philadelphia and meets the successful blind lawyer who had given him hope. The lawyer tells him that life is difficult but worth it and that his wife was an invaluable helper to him in his career. At the train station en route to begin a more advanced rehabilitation course, Larry is unexpectedly reunited with Judy. They joyfully declare their mutual love. Boarding the train, he hears Joe Morgans name called. He catches Joes arm, apologizes for all the hurt he caused and asks if they can be friends. Joe accepts the apology. They board and sit together as the train pulls out of the station.
Bright Victory
1951