Successful actress Louanne (Dorothy Mackaill) is about to marry a rich man instead of the man she really loves, Wally Dean (Frank Fay). As the film begins, Louanne is giving her last performance as she plans to retire once she is married. A group of reporters comes to interview Louanne and while she tells them a story which she thinks is appropriate for a soon-to-be wife of a wealthy socialite, the scene flashes back to her actual past. It is revealed that Louanne was once a dancer at a low-class cafe. Portuguese smuggler Miguel Parada (Noah Beery), took an interest in her and attempted to force his affections on her. Wally Dean, who was, even then, her constant companion, manages to escape with her from the cafe as a riot is about to start. Another flashback shows Wally as a barker at a carnival with Louanne as a dancer. Again Wally saves Louanne from an imminent riot. Back in the present, Louanne continues to lie to the reporters and tell them about her genteel background. Fish (Frank McHugh), one of the reporters, does not believe her story but says nothing. When Louanne returns to the stage to resume her performance, Miguel, who happens to be in the audience, recognizes her and goes to her dressing room because he has some "unfinished business" with her. Louanne enters her dressing room and is shocked to find Miguel. Wally soon appears and pretends he has a gun to intimidate Miguel; he gives the "gun" to Connie Lamont (James Murray) because he has to go on stage. While Connie is guarding Miguel, a fight erupts between the two and Miguel reveals that he has a real gun. In the struggle for it, Miguel is shot and he dies. When the police arrive, Wally tries to convince the police that Miguel committed suicide to save Louanne from a scandal before her marriage. Louannes friend Peggy (Inez Courtney) also gives false testimony to save her. The police remain unconvinced until the reporter, Fish, gives false testimony that he actually saw Miguel pull the trigger. Louanne is cleared and realizes that she really loves Wally. She cancels her engagement to her rich fiancé and is united with Wally.
Bright Lights (1930 film)
1930