In an alternate present, humans live in uneasy peace with orcs, elves, centaurs, dwarves and other races after they fought for thousands of years. In Los Angeles, veteran LAPD police officer Daryl Ward has been involuntarily partnered with Nick Jakoby, the nations first orcish police officer. Jakoby is faced with prejudice by humans for his race, and by orcs for his position as an officer. In addition to the pushback from other officers, Ward is ambivalent towards him after an incident where Ward was nearly killed by a shotgun-wielding orc and Jakoby had apparently let the assailant get away. While driving back to the station, a previously detained human Shield of Light devotee tells Jakoby in Orcish that both officers are in a prophecy and that Ward is blessed. While Jakoby is booking the devotee, Ward is approached by Internal Affairs who say they believe that Jakoby put his racial loyalties before his partner in allowing the orc assailant to get away. Ward is pressured to try to have Jakoby confess on tape so they will have publicly acceptable grounds for a firing. That night, Ward and Jakoby respond to a disturbance at what turns out to be a Shield of Light safe house; inside are a number of smoldering corpses, and the still-living torso of an elf woman embedded in a wall, indicating magic was used. They apprehend the lone unhurt survivor, a young elf named Tikka in possession of a legendary magic wand who apparently only speaks Elfish. As Jakoby puts it, a wand is like "a nuclear weapon that grants wishes", and can only be commanded by a Bright—a person with the rare ability to use magic. If a non-Bright touches a wand, they will explode from the raw magical power. When four officers arrive as backup, their racial prejudice cause them to try and coerce Ward into killing Jakoby and lying about the incident, telling Ward he will be spared in return and allowing them to steal the wand. They allow Ward to decide and he goes outside to Jakoby, holds him at gunpoint, and begins questioning him about the orc that had shot him. Jakoby admits to letting the suspect escape, though the reason being was that he had mistakenly cornered the wrong suspect. Jakoby had lost the original orc in the crowd and had instead caught up with a young orc who was spray painting a wall, not the orc who had tried to kill Ward, but he knew the other officers would not believe it and so let the kid go. During this confrontation, the four officers secretly plan on killing Ward after he kills Jakoby. As they approach Ward to hear his decision, Ward suddenly decides to believe Jakoby and kills all four officers. The incident, however, attracts the attention of the local human gang Altamira, and the two flee, under heavy fire, with Tikka and the wand. Leilah, a member of the ominous group Inferni and owner of the wand, arrives at the safehouse minutes later, searching for the wand and Tikka. After a pursuit, the trio flee through the territory of the Fogteeth Orc clan, causing a violent confrontation between the gang and the clan. Finally cornered in a strip club, the gangs disabled leader, Poison, wanting to regain the use of his legs using the wand, threatens to burn the building down unless the officers give up the wand. As Jakoby and Ward pull out their weapons to give a final stand, the Inferni appear and the ensuing fight gives the trio the opportunity to escape again. Going to ground in a service station, Ward contacts his friend, Sheriff Deputy Rodriguez, who he hopes will help them in protecting the wand. Rodriguez contacts Kandomere, an elf working for the federal Magic Task Force; dedicated to securing, containing and protecting magical objects. Kandomere tells Ward that he will be safe from prosecution for killing his fellow police officers, if they can keep the wand out of wrong hands. Before Rodriguez can bring them in, Leilahs henchmen attack the trio, killing him. Ward, Jakoby, and Tikka run into the Fogteeth Orc clan again and are dragged before its leader Dorghu. Enraged at the chaos they are causing in his neutral territory, Dorghu has Jakoby and Ward beaten and tortured to reveal the location of the wand. Dorghu orders his son, Mikey, to kill Jakoby after failing to get an answer. However, Mikey reveals that he was the orc that Jakoby allowed to escape and thus refuses to kill him. Dorghu sends his son away and kills Jakoby himself, who falls dead into a deep pit. As he prepares to kill Ward as well, Tikka produces the wand she had magically hidden and uses it to resurrect Jakoby, revealing that she is a Bright, leaving herself incapacitated. The cloaked clan priest pronounces this to be the will of the Prophecy, causing the clan kneel to Jakoby and allow the trio to go free. Realizing that the two officers can now be trusted, Tikka speaks to them in English for the first time. She explains the Infernis plan to resurrect The Dark Lord, an ancient mythical figure who will rise from the dead and take over the world. Once a member of the Inferni herself, Tikka had been protected by the Shield of Light and fled with the wand. The use of the wand causes Tikka to become ill with black streaks appearing all over her body. She says that the only way to save her is to place her in a magic pool back at the Shield safe house. They return to the safehouse, but are ambushed by Leilah and the remaining Inferni. The trio successfully kill the Inferni, but Leilah is resurrected by a magic spell. Just as Ward places Tikka in the magic pool, Leilah hangs Jakoby and knocks both Ward and Tikka out of the pool. Leilah unsuccessfully tries to convince Tikka to join her (revealing they are sisters). Jakoby breaks free and shoots the wand out of Leilahs hand, but runs out of ammo before he can kill her again. Leilah is about to kill Tikka when Ward picks up the fallen wand and is revealed to also be a Bright, using the wand to kill Leilah with an explosion that sets the building on fire. In the ensuing commotion, Tikka disappears and the injured Ward and Jakoby flee from the building, but Ward falls behind and is trapped by an explosion, causing Jakoby to have to return and save him. After rescuing Ward, Dorghu and his clan appear and perform an ancient orc ceremony signifying to Jakoby that he is now "blooded" - an Orcish status only achievable by an act of great bravery. Ward awakens the next day in a hospital room to find Jakoby at his bedside and himself restrained as he is an "extremely dangerous" Bright. As Kandomere appears, Ward understands (but Jakoby does not) that Kandomere wants to contain the incident, and gives him a fake statement as to what happened, denying the use of magic. In a public announcement before a crowd, Jakoby and Ward are honored by the city for their actions against the extremist group Inferni. Ward smiles as he spots Tikka moving through the crowd in disguise.
Bright (film)
2017