Tom Jeffords (James Stewart) comes across a wounded, 14-year-old Apache boy dying from buckshot wounds in his back. Jeffords gives the boy water and heals his wounds. The boys tribesmen appear and are at first hostile but decide to let Jeffords go free. However, when a group of gold prospectors approaches, the Apache gag Jeffords and tie him to a tree. Helpless, he watches as they attack the prospectors and torture the survivors. The warriors then let him go but warn him not to enter Apache territory again. When Jeffords returns to Tucson, he encounters a prospector who escaped the ambush. He corrects a mans exaggerated account of the attack, but Ben Slade (Will Geer) is incredulous and does not see why Jeffords did not kill the Apache boy. Instead, Jeffords learns the Apache language and customs and plans to go to Cochises stronghold on behalf of his friend, Milt (Arthur Hunnicut), who is in charge of the mail service in Tucson. Jeffords enters the Apache stronghold and begins a parley with Cochise (Jeff Chandler) who agrees to let the couriers through. Jeffords meets a young Apache girl, Sonseeahray (Debra Paget), and falls in love. A few of Cochises warriors attack an army wagon train and kill the survivors. The townsfolk nearly lynch Jeffords as a traitor before he is saved by General Oliver Otis Howard (Basil Ruysdael), who recruits Jeffords to negotiate peace with Cochise. Howard (the "Christian General") condemns racism, saying that the Bible "says nothing about pigmentation of the skin". Jeffords makes a peace treaty with Cochise, but a group led by Geronimo (Jay Silverheels) oppose the treaty and leave the stronghold. When these renegades ambush a stagecoach, Jeffords rides off to seek help from Cochise and the stagecoach is saved. Jeffords and Sonseeahray marry in an Apache ceremony and have several days of tranquility. Later, Ben Slades son spins a story to Jeffords and Cochise about two of his horses stolen by Cochises people. Cochise says that his people did not take them and doubts his story, as he knows the boys father is an Apache hater. They then decide to go along with the boy up the canyon but are ambushed by the boys father and a gang of men from Tucson. Jeffords is badly wounded and Sonseeahray is killed but Cochise kills most of the men, including Ben Slade. Cochise forbids Jeffords to retaliate, saying that the ambush was not done by the military and that Geronimo broke the peace no less than Slade and his men, and that peace must be maintained. Jeffords rides off with the belief that "the death of Sonseeahray had put a seal upon the peace, and from that day on wherever I went, in the cities, among the Apaches and in the mountains, I always remembered, my wife was with me".
Broken Arrow (1950 film)
1950