Matthew Devereaux (Spencer Tracy) is a ranch owner who has built an enormous ranch and mining empire. He raised his sons to carry on his fierce, hard-working Irish settlement spirit, that helped make him a success. However, as a consequence, hes never shown his three older sons by his late first wife, Ben, Mike, and Denny (played respectively by Richard Widmark, Hugh OBrian, and Earl Holliman), his affection as a father. He treats these grown men (in their 30s to their 40s) little better than hired help. Even though they are managing the day-to-day operations of the ranch and other enterprises full time, Matt Devereaux still retains complete authority, right down to the smallest decisions, which angers his eldest son. So, the three elder sons are united against him, for reasons that have nothing to do with either the ranch, or its management. Joe (Robert Wagner) is Matts son by his second wife, a Native American, "Señora" (Katy Jurado). Because of Joes mixed ethnicity, he is treated prejudicially by his three half-brothers—all Caucasian sons of Matts first wife. The towns people call her Señora out of respect for Matt, but not out of respect for her. Matt Devereauxs power and prestige keeps the discrimination by the townspeople towards Joe to a minimum, so long as Joe, an emerging young adult, is principally interested in riding the range alone, and spending time at his mothers native American reservation and with her people. Joe loves his father and would do anything for him. Because of his wifes insistence that he change his attitude towards their son, Matt Devereaux comes to appreciate his youngest son. This allows Matt to converse with the son, who shows no interest in owning and running the ranch empire. The older brothers interpret this as a rejection by their father, and an attempt to live the lie that he has only one son and not four. Resentment ensues. The two middle sons rustle cattle and get two Mexicans killed, then get caught by two Indian workers whom they sacked the year before and shot by Matt. After 40 head of cattle die, Matt determines that a copper mine is polluting a stream where he waters his cattle. He becomes furious and leads a raid on the mine offices and director. The mine is on Matts land, and he has leased out the mineral rights. The law issues a warrant to arrest whoever was responsible for the attack. To spare his father the agony and humiliation of a stay behind bars, Joe claims responsibility and is sentenced to three years in prison. Ben and his other brothers rebel against their father in Joe´s absence with such fierceness that the old man suffers a fatal stroke. Joe is permitted to leave prison long enough to attend his fathers funeral, during which he formally severs his ties with his brothers and proclaims a blood feud. Released from prison several years later, Joe returns to the ranch. The señora, his mother, persuades him to forget revenge and leave the country. Joe decides to take her advice, but Ben, fearing his revenge because he killed his father in the end, crosses his path and tries to kill him. The two half-brothers fight until Two Moons, the ranch foreman, shoots Ben dead to save Joe´s life. Time passes, and Joe and his new wife Barbara (Jean Peters) visit Matts grave. There, Joe sees the down-turned lance, the Indian symbol for a blood feud, and breaks it in half, thus ending the feud.
Broken Lance
1954