Bruce Nolan (Jim Carrey) is a television field reporter for Eyewitness News at WKBW-TV in Buffalo, New York, but desires to be the news anchorman. He is in a relationship with his girlfriend Grace Connelly (Jennifer Aniston), but also has a mild crush on his co-worker, Susan Ortega (Catherine Bell), who barely seems to notice him. Bruce, however, suffers from constant bad luck and reaches breaking point when he is passed over for promotion by his rival, Evan Baxter (Steve Carell), who then steals dialogue from an unaired segment by Bruce while accepting the promotion on air. This causes Bruce to aggressively and insanely criticize the station during his first live report and mock-congratulate Evan and is promptly fired. Following a series of other misfortunes, Bruce takes out his frustration on God (Morgan Freeman), blaming Him and claiming that He is "the one who should be fired." Bruce later receives a message on his pager directing him to an empty warehouse, where he meets God. God offers to give Bruce His job to see if Bruce can do a better job. God gives Bruce two rules that he must follow: Bruce cannot tell anyone else that he is God and Bruce cannot use his powers to interfere with free will. Initially, Bruce becomes jubilant with the powers, using them for personal gain such as having his dog use the toilet, getting revenge on a street gang that assaulted him earlier, transforming his damaged car into a Saleen S7 (an expensive sports car) and sexually impressing Grace. Bruce also finds ways of using the powers to cause miraculous events to occur at otherwise mundane events that he covers, such as discovering the body of Jimmy Hoffa, earning him his job back, or causing a meteor to harmlessly land near a cook-off. Bruce then uses his powers to cause Evan to humiliate himself on air, causing Bruce to be promoted to anchor position while Evan gets fired. After taking Grace to a fancy dinner and telling her about his promotion (disappointing her, as she thought he was going to propose), Bruce begins to hear voices in his head. He re-encounters God, who explains that the voices are prayers to God, and that Bruce must deal with them. Bruce creates an e-mail system to receive prayers and respond to them - but finds that the influx is far too great for him to handle, even with the use of his powers. So he sets the program to automatically answer "Yes" to every prayer, thinking this will make everyone happy. During a party to celebrate Bruces promotion, Susan seduces and kisses him. When Grace arrives and sees this, she angrily storms out; Bruce follows her, but she is heartbroken and wont listen to him. He tries to use his powers to convince Grace to stay, but cannot influence her free will (causing his relationship with her to get mocked by Susan). As Bruce looks around, he realizes that automatically granting everyones prayers has plunged the city into chaos. Bruce returns to God, who explains that despite how chaotic things seem, there is always a way to make things right, and that Bruce must figure out a way to solve it himself. Bruce then begins to solve his problems in life practically, such as helping a man whose car has broken down, training his dog properly, and allowing Evan to have his job back (and actually congratulating him, in contrast to his fake congratulation earlier). Bruce returns to his computer system, having briefly unplugged it, and he finds many prayers from Grace about Bruce. As he reads them, another prayer from Grace arrives, this one wishing not to be in love with Bruce anymore. A despondent Bruce walks alone on a highway, asking God to take back His powers and letting his fate be in His hands. Bruce is suddenly struck by a truck and regains consciousness in a white void (heaven). God appears and tells Bruce to pray for what he truly wants; Bruce prays for Grace to find a man that would make her happy. God agrees and Bruce finds himself in the hospital, shortly after being miraculously revived by the doctors. Grace arrives and the two reconcile. After his recovery, Bruce returns to his field of reporting, but takes more pleasure, in simple stories. Bruce and Grace announce their engagement on live television. The film ends with the homeless man Bruce had ran into on various occasions turning into God, who claps the film off.
Bruce Almighty
2007