It is almost the end of the Cold War in Europe. Specialist Ray Elwood (Joaquin Phoenix) is a U.S. Army soldier stationed in Stuttgart, West Germany, in 1989. He devotes much of his time to dealing on the black market and cooking heroin for a group of drug-dealing Military Police led by the mean Sergeant Saad. As a supply specialist, Elwood poses as a model soldier and friendly confidant to his amiable commanding officer, Colonel Berman (Ed Harris). Berman has no idea what supplies his subordinate is requisitioning or Elwood is sleeping with his wife (Elizabeth McGovern). But things change when a new First Sergeant, Robert E. Lee (Scott Glenn) joins Elwoods supply company. The new Top is both menacing and savvy, quickly assessing that Elwood and his squad are engaged in graft. A tank crew, under the influence of Elwoods heroin, unintentionally kill two soldiers in charge of a weapons convoy by crashing through a gas station. Elwood happens upon the cache and steals it, hiding the weapons in a missile base. When confronted by Lee, Elwoods attempt at bribery backfires badly. The Top revokes Elwoods privileges, destroys his property, and orders a new, naive and honest soldier, Pfc. Knoll (Gabriel Mann) to bunk in his room. To get back at Lee, Elwood begins a sexual relationship with his daughter, Robyn (Anna Paquin). However, in retaliation the Top makes Elwood destroy his expensive car during a squad weapons training exercise. Lee booby traps a locker some soldiers are using to hide heroin. The grenade kills Stoney, one of Elwoods friends. Elwood sells the stolen weapons to a Turkish gangster (Haluk Bilginer), reluctantly accepting payment in raw opium. He plans to cook the large amount into heroin. However, after Elwood is forced to save Knoll from being killed by Saad in a fight, he agrees to let the MP Sgt. become a business partner. In order to have time to trade the weapons from the missile base and collect the drugs, Elwood sells out Col. Berman so another regiment can easily capture their positions during an army exercise. Afterwards the colonel wistfully tells Elwood he has been dismissed from command but this has given time to reflect on his future. On 9 November 1989, the night the Berlin Wall came down, Elwood sneaks to the base swimming pool to meet Robyn while the opium is being cooked by his squad and Sgt. Saad and his MPs. Knoll and 1st Sgt. Lee then arrive. Elwood discovers Knoll is actually an undercover 2nd Lieutenant from the Inspector Generals Office. While Knoll puts Robyn in a car, Lee beats up Elwood. However, Robyn tells Knoll her dad is going to kill Elwood, something Knoll –  as an honest officer –  cannot allow. Meanwhile Saad, intoxicated by opium fumes, provokes a shoot out with commandos sent to arrest everyone making heroin. Upstairs just as Knoll stops Lee at gunpoint from throwing Elwood from a window, the building containing the drugs lab in the basement explodes because of a massive gas leak caused by the gunfire. Elwood falls from the window with his handcuffs around Lees neck. He survives the drop by landing on Lee. The film concludes with heavy irony. The US Army decorates Elwood with medals and a transfer to Hawaii (Lee receives a posthumous Silver Star). His new CO is just as naive as Col. Berman. Elwood states that Robyn remains his sweetheart and that she will be visiting soon. The film ends with Elwood making a requisition order for more excessive supplies.
Buffalo Soldiers (2001 film)
2001