Bugs has relocated his home due to heavy winter rains; he now lives under the floor of a condemned building. All of a sudden, he hears police sirens, which are followed by a car stopping, and then clambering footsteps. Rocky and Mugsy, two gangsters, burst into the room. They have just committed a jewelry robbery, "all 14-carat". Bugs hears the last word as "carrot", and emerges to see what is happening. He realizes what is going on, and vows to take care of the two while they rest for the night. First, Bugs takes a candlestick telephone and slips one end near Rockys ear and whispers from the other end in his hole that Mugsy is not so very trustworthy and is coming up with ideas, until Rocky gets out of the chair and confronts Mugsy. Mugsy has no idea what is up. Next, Bugs sneaks out and places an axe in Mugsys right hand. Then in his hole he whispers through the old phone and informs Rocky that Mugsy is not called "the Detroit Butcher for nothing". Rocky once again confronts Mugsy, seizes the weapon and slices one of the couchs arms cleanly. Mugsy still does not know what is up. Next, Bugs is in the attic unscrewing the ceiling light over Rockys head with a screwdriver. Mugsy sees the screws coming loose. Knowing that Rocky will blame him if the light falls on him, he grabs his own screwdriver and a ladder and tries to screw the light back in. But Bugs beats him to it and the lights falls right on Rocky, and because Mugsy looks as if he did it when Rocky sees him, he kicks Mugsy several times in the air. Next, Bugs switches Rockys cigarette with a dynamite stick. He walks over to Mugsy and imitates Rockys voice asking for a light. (" Okay, boss. Yeah, boss. See , Im glad youre not mad at me no more.") Mugsy gladly does and Rocky is blown up. ("Ah. Now youre mad at me again. But, but, boss.") Rocky snaps, ties Mugsy up and shuts him in a corridor. Next, Bugs saws a circle around Rockys chair, only letting him see the tool near the end. Bugs then slips it into Mugsys hands and hides, while Rocky shoots wildly and confronts Mugsy with some hitting while screaming, "I dont know how yas done it, but I know yas done it!!!". Finally, Bugs pops out from under the floor, unties Mugsy and puts him up on his feet with a pair of roller skates and a powerful magnet and drags it down with him. Mugsy skates all around Rocky. Then Bugs and Rocky cause Mugsy to crash from wall to wall. Soon the police arrive and arrest the crooks. Rocky thinks it was Mugsy that gave them away to the police (and then begins to mercilessly beat up Mugsy in the police car) but it was actually Bugs, who put up a neon sign flashing the words "ROCKYS HIDEAWAY".
Bugsy and Mugsy
1957