Somewhere in the Pacific, Bugs is floating in a box, singing to himself, when the island that inevitably turns up in this kind of picture turns up. Bugs swims towards it, and admires the peace and quiet, when bombs start going off ("The Storm" from the William Tell Overture is also heard in the background). Bugs ducks into a haystack, and soon comes face to face with a Japanese soldier; a short, buck-toothed, bare-footed Japanese man who says his Ls as Rs and who might be rapidly stating the names of Japanese cities whenever he moves. The soldier chases Bugs to a rabbit hole, where the soldier dumps a bomb inside. However, Bugs manages to blow the soldier up with the bomb. When the soldier tries to swing a sword at Bugs, Bugs appears as a Japanese general (presumably Hideki Tojo), but is soon recognized by his trademark carrot eating, prompting the soldier (who says he saw Bugs in the "Warner Bros. Leon Schlesinger Merrie Melodies cartoon pictures", referring to the fact that Bugs was originally exclusive to that series) to ask him "Whats up, Honorable Doc?" Bugs then jumps into a plane and the soldier also jumps into a plane. However, Bugs ties the soldiers plane to a tree, causing the plane to be yanked out from under him. The soldier parachutes down, but is met by Bugs in mid-air, who hands "Moto" (cf. Mr. Moto) some scrap iron (an anvil), causing the soldier to fall. Painting a Japanese flag on a tree to denote one soldier down, Bugs runs into a sumo wrestler, whom he confidently faces off against (cockily marking a second bigger flag on the tree). After getting temporarily beaten by the sumo wrestler (and, to be fair, wipes the second mark off the tree before collapsing), Bugs dresses as a geisha girl and knocks the wrestler out, who repaints a second flag on the tree before passing out. Seeing a bunch of Japanese landing craft making their way to the island (exclaiming "Japs! Hundreds of em!"), Bugs thinks of a plan to get rid of all of them. He comes out in a Good Rumor (a parody of Good Humor) truck, which plays Mozart ("Der Vogelfänger bin ich ja" from The Magic Flute). Bugs hands each of the Japanese an ice cream bar with a grenade inside it, calling them racist slurs such as "monkey-face" and "slant-eyes" whilst doing so. All the Japanese are killed off from the explosions, save for one who was killed after redeeming a free ice cream bar from Bugs. Having now painted dozens of Japanese flags on the trees denoting all the downed enemy, Bugs comments again about the peace and quiet - and if theres one thing I CANT stand, its peace and quiet!. Bugs spots an American battleship in the distance and raises a white flag, yelling for them to come get him, but they keep going. Bugs is insulted. "Do they think I want to spend the rest of my life on this island?" With this remark, a female rabbit (dressed in a more Hawaiian outfit) appears saying, "Its a possibility!" Bugs then pulls down the distress flag, lets out a wolf cry and goes running after her.
Bugs Bunny Nips the Nips
1944