In Tibet, 1943, a Tibetan monk is informed by his master that he has fulfilled a series of prophecies that mark him as his successor. The monk, forgoing his name, is entrusted with guarding a scroll his master protected, that contains knowledge that will make its reader powerful, young, and immune to injury. Granted its powers, the monk learns he will need to find his own successor to pass on the scroll in his future. Shortly after he receives the scroll, he is forced to flee when German soldiers, led by their officer Strucker, attack the monks temple and kill his master. Strucker, who sought the scroll for his own desires, vows to track down the monk. Sixty years later, the nameless Monk witnesses a young pickpocket named Kar, fleeing from police after he was caught robbing one of their officers, along with members of a local gang who do not like him pick-pocketing on their turf. When the pair collide into a young girl and put her into the path of an oncoming train, Kar and Monk rescue her. Shortly after the pair introduce themselves to each other, Kar steals the scroll from Monk and runs away. Monk pursues after him, suspecting he may be a suitable successor to his role, based on three prophecies his master told him before his death, the first of which Kar has fulfilled. When Kar finds himself fighting against the local gangs leader, he meets a young woman named Jade, whom he falls in love with. The next day, Monk meets with Kar to talk with them, just as Jade approaches them to ask Kar to return her necklace to him, which he had stolen to earn her esteem. The meeting is interrupted when Monk is forced to run from a group of mercenaries seeking him, taking Kar with him. At an Asian laundromat, Monk reveals that it cellar houses a group of fellow monks who aid him, and decides to show Kar some advanced combat techniques. While training at an abandoned warehouse, the pair are attacked by the mercenaries, who steal the scroll for their employer Nina, the head of the Human Rights Organisation, and Strucker, her grandfather. However, the pair discover the scroll is a fake; Kar learns that the real secret in it was tattooed onto Monks body. Angered, Nina visits Kars home to track the pair down, murdering Kars employer. When Kar learns of this, he proceeds to seek out help from Monk at the laundromat. An ambitious monk betrays the group to Strucker and Nina. While Monk and Kar escape, the mercenaries capture all of the monks and take them a secret facility beneath the Organisations headquarter, where all are tortured; the monk who betrayed them, is killed. Seeking help, Kar and Monk visit Jade at her home, learning that she is the daughter of a currently imprisoned Russian crime lord. Monk realises that this fact and a small tussle between Kar and Jade inside the house, has fulfilled the second prophecy he was told about. At that moment, the group are interrupted by Nina and her mercenaries, who capture Monk and take him back to their base. Jade, having met Nina earlier that day when she was opening an exhibit created by the Organisation, helps Kar to infiltrate their headquarters. Both later get separated. Strucker, dressed in his officers uniform, begins reading the scroll on Monks body and regains his youth. However, finds that the scrolls last verse is missing, to which Monk reveals he memorised it. Before Strucker can scan Monks brain for it, Kar arrives and distracts him, allowing Monk to break free. While Jade, having dealt with Nina, works to free the monks, Monk and Kar engage with Strucker and throw him off the headquarters roof and onto some electric cables. Believing he has been dealt with, Monk and Kar reunites with the monks and Jade, before the Scrolls contents are transferred to Kar, having fulfilled the third prophecy. Strucker, still alive, attempts to kill Kar, but is killed himself instead by a falling statue. Kar is then surprised to find that Jade has the Scrolls power herself, having survived being shot at by Strucker - like Kar, she also fulfilled the three prophecies, and has the Scrolls content on her body as well. Monk, now aged, meets with Kar and Jade the next day, giving each one half of the final verse, deeming them now inseparable. The pair wish him a good vacation from his duties, before departing to fulfil their new role.
Bulletproof Monk
2003