Ali Willis and Lisa Connelly are friends with Bobby Kent and Marty Puccio. They all go out on a double date. While in a parked car, Ali performs oral sex on Bobby, while Lisa and Marty have sex in the back seat. Lisa later learns she is pregnant, but is afraid that the child is Bobbys instead of Martys, since Bobby raped her after beating Marty unconscious. Bobby emotionally and physically abuses Marty, and also rapes Ali. Marty reveals to Lisa that the abuse has been going on since they were boys, starting with Marty taking drugs at an early age, which Marty thinks that Bobby has been using to take advantage of him. Marty and Bobby then go to a gay bar, where he is forced to strip down to his underwear, and begins to dance, while Bobby starts to videotape the whole ordeal. Lisa eventually proposes that they murder Bobby. Ali recruits her new boyfriend, Donny, and her friend, Heather Swallers, while Lisa recruits her cousin, Derek Dzvirko. After doing drugs and having sex, the teens make their first attempt, but back out. Realizing they need help, they hire a supposed "hitman", Derek Kaufman, who is just a tough-talking adolescent. The teens come up with a new plan. They arrive at a swamp, where Donny stabs Bobby in the back of the neck. Shocked by the violence, Ali, Heather, and Derek Dzvirko run back to Alis car. Bobby begs for mercy, but Marty slits his throat, and Derek Kaufman bludgeons him with a baseball bat. Lisa witnesses it all, never turning away. They dispose of Bobbys body in the swamp and flee. Marty later realizes that he left the sheath to his diving knife at the canal. They go to retrieve the sheath, and check on the corpse, which is now being eaten by crabs. Lisa, Derek Dzvirko, Ali, and Heather do not believe they did anything wrong, since they did not directly participate in Bobbys actual death. Lisa decides to dispose of the knife, which is the only evidence linking them to the crime. Unable to maintain the secret, Derek Dzvirko and Lisa reveal to their other friends what theyve done, while Ali phones in an anonymous tip to the media, alerting them to Bobbys death. Lisa calls Derek Kaufman and speaks to his younger brother, who says that Derek has already been arrested for the murder. Eventually, all the teenagers turn themselves in, with the exception of Marty, who is arrested a few days later. The group is later seen in court wearing prison jumpsuits, and Lisa visibly pregnant by this time. Marty and Donny argue, inadvertently admitting to Bobbys murder in front of the entire court. It is then revealed that the teenagers were all convicted of Bobbys murder, and list the sentences they receive: Heather Swallers is sentenced to 7 years. Derek Dzvirko is sentenced to 11 years. Ali Willis is sentenced to 40 years. Donny Semenec, Derek Kaufman and Lisa Connelly are sentenced to life in prison. Marty Puccio is sentenced to death by the electric chair. Subsequent title cards reveal that some of the characters and events were composited or exaggerated for dramatic effect, and the results of the defendants appeals at the making of the film: Lisa Connellys sentence was reduced to 22 years. Alice Willis was sentenced to 17 years, but would be under community supervision for 40 years upon her release. Martin Puccios sentence was reduced to life in prison.
Bully (2001 film)
2001