Archie Moses is a small-time crook and a thief who lives in Los Angeles, California. He also smuggles drugs for a local drug lord named Frank Colton. He is unaware that his best friend, Rock Keats, is actually an LAPD undercover cop, with a real name being Jack Carter, who is seeking evidence against Colton, and he befriended Moses, only to infiltrate Coltons gang members. One night, Jack goes out with Moses and both boys him drunk, and they both manage to get included in the next drugs shipment, and Jack tells his police colleagues where this will be. Their plan is to wait till Colton arrives, but Jack is exposed before it can all happen. During the raid on Coltons warehouse, Archie realizes that Jack is actually a cop, and tries to escape the warehouse during the raid. An out of control crane hits Moses in the back, and causes him to accidentally shoot Jack in the head. Jack miraculously survives and makes a full recovery with the aid of his physical therapist, Dr. Traci Flynn. Moses then flees the state, and is subsequently found and arrested later on. Moses is brought into custody, and he agrees to testify against Colton, but the trial takes place at the other side of the country. After Jacks recovery, his superior officer, Will Jensen, orders him to get Moses to transfer him personally to the courtroom. Feeling bitter and vengeful about the accident, Carter harbors resentment against Moses, and tensions escalate once the simple transfer goes awry. Colton learns through bribed federal agents and LAPD officers of Moses attempt to testify against Colton. Carter and Moses slowly mend their friendship, and are successful in returning to their local police department. However, Colton apparently holds Flynn hostage, and blackmails Carter into turning Moses over in order to save Flynn. However, Carter and Moses pretend to comply with Colton, and shoot their way through Coltons guards. It is later revealed that Flynn was responsible for leaking Carters and Moses whereabouts to Colton, and was actually on his payroll. Carter manages to distract Colton after Moses gets shot in the shoulder by Colton, and, after apprehending Flynn, Moses manages to kill Colton. However, Moses gives the incriminating documents on Colton to Carter, and he heads to Mexico, where he becomes a bullfighter, with Carter and Moses mother later accompanying him.
Bulletproof (1996 film)
1996