Ambitious San Francisco politician Walter Chalmers is about to present a surprise star witness in a Senate subcommittee hearing on organized crime. Johnny Ross, a defector from the Organization in Chicago, is to be put under protective custody over the weekend until his Monday morning appearance. Seeking to associate himself and his grandstanding mob-busting effort with a high-visibility SFPD detective, Chalmers requests Lieutenant Frank Bullitt be put in charge. Bullitt and his team, Delgetti and Stanton, put Ross under around-the-clock protection in a cheap hotel selected by Chalmers. Stanton is on solo duty when the desk clerk unexpectedly calls at 1:00 a.m., Saturday morning to announce that Chalmers wants to come up. While Stanton checks by phone with Bullitt, Ross unchains the hotel room door. Two hitmen burst in and shoot Stanton and Ross, seriously wounding both occupants. At the hospital, Chalmers holds Bullitt responsible. Later, Bullitt thwarts a second assassination attempt on Ross before it can materialize, but Ross soon dies of his original wounds. Helped by a sympathetic Dr. Willard, who had been snubbed by Chalmers, Bullitt delays news of the death by spiriting the body out of the hospital by private ambulance service, registering it as a John Doe at the city morgue. Bullitt finds the cab driver who drove Ross to the hotel, and recreates Ross movements upon arriving in town, learning that he made a long distance call from a phone booth. Bullitts confidential informant, Eddy, reveals that Ross was caught stealing $2 million ($14.1 million today) from the Chicago Mob and fled to San Francisco after escaping an attempted hit in Chicago. Meanwhile, Chalmers serves Bullitts captain with a writ of habeas corpus to force Bullitt to produce Ross. While driving in San Francisco, Bullitt is pursued by the hitmen in a 1968 Dodge Charger R/T. He flips the chase, turning the hunters into the hunted. They attempt to escape, and a high-speed chase ensues through the steep streets of Russian Hill and out onto the highway, ending when Bullitts 1968 Ford Mustang GT forces the Charger off the road and into a gas station, where it explodes in a huge fireball. Bullitt and Delgetti face their superiors on Sunday morning. They reveal that Ross is dead and that their only leads are phone records showing that Rosss call was to a Dorothy Simmons in a hotel in nearby San Mateo. The detectives are given until Monday to deliver results. With his car out of commission, Bullitt gets a ride from his girlfriend Cathy in her Porsche 356. The detectives find Simmons strangled in her hotel room. Cathy sees police rushing in and follows, fearing for Bullitt. Horrified by the crime scene, she later confronts him about his violent world, wondering whether she really understands him and where the life he leads will take them. Back in San Francisco, Bullitt and Delgetti search Simmons luggage, discovering brand new sets of clothing, an airline ticket and passport folders, a travel brochure for Rome, and thousands of dollars in travelers checks made out to an Albert and Dorothy Renick. Bullitt requests passport information for the Renicks and a fingerprint check for the dead Ross. Chalmers again confronts Bullitt, demanding a signed admission that Ross died while in his custody. But Bullitt refuses to comply. A facsimile of Albert Renicks passport application arrives, showing the man they believed to be Ross was actually Renick, a used car salesman from Chicago with no criminal record bearing a startling resemblance to Ross. Bullitt points out that Chalmers was duped by the real Ross, who used him to fake his own death by setting up Renick to die in his place, then murdered the wife to complete the cover-up. Delgetti discovers reservations for the Renicks on an evening flight to Rome. He and Bullitt go to San Francisco International Airport to look for Ross, traveling as Renick. They stake out the Rome flight gate, only to find that Ross has switched to a slightly earlier flight to London that is already taxiing toward takeoff. Chalmers shows up to lay claim to his witness, even though he is now wanted for murder, and is again rebuffed by Bullitt. Bullitt has the plane stopped, but Ross escapes. A foot chase across the busy runways ends in a tense pursuit inside the crowded passenger terminal. When Ross bolts and shoots a security guard, Bullitt shoots and kills Ross. The empty-handed Chalmers skulks away, and is driven off in his limousine bearing a "Support Your Local Police" bumper sticker. Early the next morning, Bullitt drives home and observes Cathys car upon approaching his apartment. He looks in and sees her sleeping in his bedroom, but does not wake her. He takes off his shoulder holster and balances it on a banister. As he begins to wash up at the bathroom sink, he looks up into his own reflection and contemplates himself for a long moment.
Bullitt
1968