The title character, Carla "Campbell" (Gina Lollobrigida), is an Italian woman who - during the American occupation of Italy - slept with three American GIs (a corporal, a sergeant, and a lieutenant) in the course of ten days, Cpl. Phil Newman (Phil Silvers), Lt. Justin Young (Peter Lawford), and Sgt. Walter Braddock (Telly Savalas). By the time she discovers she is pregnant, all three have moved on, and she, uncertain of which is the father, convinces each of the three (who are unaware of the existence of the other two) to support "his" daughter, Gia, financially. To protect her reputation, as well as the reputation of her unborn child, Carla has raised the girl to believe her mother is the widow of an army air force captain named Eddie Campbell, a name she borrowed from a can of soup (she is very fond of Campbells soups). The film opens twenty years after the end of World War II in the village of San Forino, where the three ex-airmen attend a unit-wide reunion of the 293rd Squadron of the 15th AF in the village where they were stationed. The men are accompanied by their wives, and in the Newmans case, three obnoxious children. Carla is forced into a series of comic slapstick situations as she tries to keep them - each one anxious to meet his daughter (Janet Margolin) for the first time - from discovering her secret, while at the same time trying to keep Gia from running off to Paris to be with a much older married man who will take her to Brazil. When confronted, Mrs. Campbell admits she does not know which of the three men is Gias father. She challenges the men by asking them what kind of father each would have been, particularly because they have never been there for all the small but important life events of their daughter. Provoked by this, the potential fathers talk to Gia and insist that she cannot run off. The "fathers" cease the support payments, and the Braddocks, who cannot have children of their own, agree to take care of Gia while she studies in the U.S.
Buona Sera, Mrs. Campbell
1968