The Rolf family takes a summer-long vacation at a large, shabby neo-classical 19th-century mansion in the countryside. The family consists of Marian (Karen Black), her husband Ben (Oliver Reed), their twelve-year-old son Davey (Lee H. Montgomery), and Bens elderly Aunt Elizabeth (Bette Davis). The owners of the house are the Allardyce siblings, Arnold and Roz (Burgess Meredith and Eileen Heckart); there is also a caretaker called Walker (Dub Taylor). The Allardyces inform the Rolfs of a particularly odd requirement for their rental: their mother will continue to live in her upstairs room, and the Rolfs are to provide her with meals during their stay. The siblings explain that the old woman is obsessed with privacy and will not interact with them, so meals are to be left outside her door. Marian eagerly accepts this task, having already succumbed to the allure of the ornate house and its period decor. She becomes obsessed with caring for the home, begins to dress as if she is from the Victorian age, and distances herself from her family. Of particular interest to her is a room near the bedroom of Mrs. Allardyce, which contains collections of framed portraits of people from different eras and a music box. Various unusual circumstances occur during the summer: After Ben cuts his hand on a champagne bottle, a dead light bulb in the kitchen storeroom mysteriously is revived; while playing in the pool, Ben almost drowns Davey; a gas heater in Daveys bedroom turns itself on and the windows lock shut; Ben is haunted by a dream and a waking vision of an eerie, grinning, malevolent chauffeur whom he first saw at his mothers funeral many years earlier. With each accident, the house regenerates itself. Initially unknown to her family, Marian is becoming possessed by the spirit of the house. When Aunt Elizabeth suddenly takes ill and dies, Marian does not attend the funeral. She steps into a previously barren room with half-dead flowers only to discover a beautiful, ornate garden. Upon returning home from the funeral, Ben confronts Marian, who retreats to the room outside the bedroom of Mrs. Allardyce. Ben angrily confronts her about her obsession with the home and what the home is doing to their family. When she denies it, he reveals to her his intentions of leaving the next day, "with or without you". Ben sleeps in an armchair in his sons room but awakens to the sound of old shingles falling off the house. Looking out the window he sees that the house is rejuvenating itself. He attempts to escape with his son but a tree blocks the road. When Marian drives them back to the house Ben accuses her of being a part of what is going on, and then sees her as the chauffeur, and becomes catatonic. The next day, while Davey is swimming and a still catatonic Ben is watching him, the placid pool turns into angry, vicious waves, pulling the boy under as Ben is unable to move. Marian frantically saves her son, and the incident awakens Ben out of his catatonic state although he was unable to move to save Davey. Marian agrees that its time to leave. As Ben readies his family to leave, Marian decides to go back inside to tell Mrs. Allardyce they are leaving. When she fails to return to the car Ben goes inside to get her, but cannot find her. Ben decides to confront Mrs. Allardyce, whom he has never seen face to face. Ben is horrified when he finds that his wife is now the old woman in the attic. Ben is thrown from an attic window, landing on the windshield of his car. In shock, Davey runs toward the house and is killed when one of the chimneys falls on him. With the house now fully rejuvenated and glistening like new, the Allardyce siblings and Walker magically reappear and are heard marveling at the houses beauty and rejoicing over the return of their "mother". The photo collection now includes photos of Ben, Davey and Aunt Elizabeth, the latest of the houses many victims.
Burnt Offerings (film)
1976