Gloria Wandrous (Elizabeth Taylor) wakes up in the apartment of wealthy executive Weston Liggett (Laurence Harvey) and finds that he has left her $250. Insulted, Gloria, whose dress is torn, takes Liggetts wife Emilys (Dina Merrill) mink coat to cover herself and scrawls "No Sale" in lipstick on the mirror. But she orders her telephone answering service, BUtterfield 8, to put Liggett through if he calls. Gloria visits a childhood friend, pianist Steve Carpenter (Eddie Fisher), who chastises her for wasting her life on one-night stands but agrees to ask his girlfriend Norma (Susan Oliver) to lend her a dress. Gloria leaves, and Norma tells Steve to choose between her or Gloria. Liggett takes a train to the countryside where his wife Emily is caring for her mother. A friend, Bingham Smith (Jeffrey Lynn), advises him to end his adulterous relationships and return to Bings law firm instead of working for the chemical business of Emilys father. Meanwhile, Gloria lies to her mother Annie (Mildred Dunnock), claiming to have spent the night at Normas. Liggett returns home. Finding the lipstick and money, he phones Gloria to explain the money was meant for her to buy a new dress, to replace the one that he had torn. While drinking later that night, Liggett advises her to ask a high price for her lovemaking talents. She insists she does not take payment from her dates and claims she has been hired as a model to advertise the dress she is wearing at three bistros that night. Liggett follows Gloria, watching her flirt with dozens of men at several clubs. He then drives her to a run-down motel. After sleeping together, Liggett and Gloria decide to explore their relationship further. Together for five days, they grow closer, falling genuinely in love with one another and parting only upon the return of Liggetts wife. When Gloria returns home, she confesses to her mother about having been the "slut of all time" but declares that that is all over now since she is truly in love. Gloria visits her psychiatrist Dr. Tredman (George Voskovec) to insist that her relationship with Liggett has cured her of promiscuity. For his part, Liggett also plan to change his life, taking up Bings offer of a job at the law firm. When he returns home, Emily has noticed that her mink is gone. Liggett makes excuses and rushes out to search for Gloria at her regular clubs. He is unable to locate her, but in his search he is repeatedly confronted with the reality of Glorias promiscuous past. When Gloria finds Liggett at a bistro the following evening, he drunkenly launches into insults. Gloria drives Liggett to his apartment building where Emily, spotting them from a window above, watches as her husband throws the coat at Gloria, saying he would never give the tainted object back to his wife. Gloria goes to Steve, saying that she feels she has "earned" the mink coat she is wearing. Having never before taken payment from the men she slept with, she now has and she laments "what that makes me." She recounts that when she was 13, a friend of her widowed mother taught her about "evil," and she hates herself because she loved it and thus went on to make her life out of it. Steve insists that Gloria stay the night since both Gloria and he have to decide what to do next. Norma arrives the next morning finds Gloria asleep on Steves couch; having at last made up his mind, he asks Norma to marry him. The next day, a now-sober Liggett admits to himself that he still loves Gloria and asks Emily for a divorce. Meanwhile, Gloria tells her mother she is moving to Boston to begin a new life. Upon discovering Glorias destination, Liggett drives until he spots her car at a roadside café. He tries to apologize to Gloria by asking her to marry him, but Gloria insists that his insults have "branded" her and that her past is a sore spot that no husband would ever truly be able to accept. Pursuing Glorias car, Liggett sees her miss a sign for road construction and accidentally hurtle over an embankment to her death. When he returns to the city, Liggett tells his wife about Glorias death, announces that he is leaving to "find my pride," and says that if Emily is still home when he returns, they will work on their marriage.
Butterfield 8
1960