Henry and Ellen Smith are a middle-aged married couple who have settled into a routine life in the suburbs of New York. Henry feels that the spice has gone out of their marriage, while Ellen is more content with their lot in life. When the couple comes into a financial windfall, Henry suggests that they take separate vacations. Reluctantly, Ellen agrees, and Henry departs to test the waters of New York Citys nightlife. In the city, he meets up with Skeets, and the two go out on the town, eventually ending up pursuing Gloria Dawn and her friend Merle, Broadway dancers. After sitting at home and bemoaning her fate with her housekeeper, Whiffen, for a several days, eventually Ellen decides what is good for the goose is good for the gander, and she also departs to have some fun in New York.  Upon her arrival she meets the sweet-talking world traveler, David McKenzie. When Henry and Skeets fail to connect with the dancers, Henry meets up with an old friend, Freddie Wilkens, who promises to show him a good time. Unbeknownst to Henry, Freddie knows that Helen is in town also looking for some fun, and he intends to provide it. He sets Henry up with a prostitute, and then goes to seduce Helen. While Henry takes his "date", Andree, out for the evening, Helen is busy turning down the advances of Freddie. After Freddies departure, Helen seeks out McKenzie, who takes her to dinner. As the night wears on, the amorous entanglements of both the husband and wife progress. McKenzie is receptive to becoming involved with Helen, and takes her to his yacht following dinner. He tells her he is sailing the following day. Meanwhile, Andree is also very open to having things proceed further with Henry, and the two head back to his hotel suite. As they do, McKenzie takes Helen back to her suite. There, things heat up between the two, and he asks her to go away with him when he sets sail. In Henrys suite, he realizes that things are going too fast, and afraid of what might happen, he sneaks out and heads back to his house in the suburbs. Upon his return to their home, he is upset by the fact that Helen is not at home. In Helens suite, she is confused by the effect that McKenzies attention is having on her. Putting him off, she tells him that she will give him an answer in the morning. After he leaves, she is afraid of her feelings, and she heads back to her home. After she arrives, she and Henry realize that the two really love each other, and they reconcile.
By Your Leave
1934