A hermit walking in the woods encounters his dog. He tries to get the dogs attention, but the dog is dead due to a bloody infection, and the hermit comes into contact with the infected blood. College students Jeff, Marcy, Paul, Karen and Burt, take a vacation to a remote cabin to celebrate the start of spring break. Jeff and Marcy are in a physical relationship, while Paul has had a crush on Karen since seventh grade. Burt is the proverbial fifth wheel of the group. Visiting a local convenience store, they encounter an unusual boy named Dennis, who has a tendency to bite people, and who bites Pauls hand. When the five reach the cabin, Jeff and Marcy have sex while Paul and Karen go for a swim. Burt goes out to shoot squirrels with his rifle, but ends up shooting the hermit, now disfigured and bloody. The hermit begs for help, but Burt flees and does not tell anyone about the incident. That night, the friends gather around a campfire, where they are joined by a friendly drifter named Justin, who prefers to be called Grimm, and his dog, Dr. Mambo. After sharing some marijuana it starts raining, so Grimm leaves with his dog to pack up his belongings. While the friends wait for Grimm indoors, the hermit returns, in a much worse state than before and begging for help. Burt shuts the door on the sick hermit, who then tries stealing the groups car, while vomiting blood upon it. When the hermit threatens Marcy and Karen, Paul accidentally sets him on fire. The group looks for help the next day. Jeff and Burt find a neighbor, but leave when they find out she is the dead hermits cousin. Dr. Mambo begins harassing the group. Paul gets assistance from police Deputy Winston, who promises to send up a tow truck, but in the meantime encourages Paul to have a good time and party. Paul tries comforting Karen, who is upset over the killing of the hermit. After calming her down, Paul attempts to have sex with her, but when he moves to touch her, he discovers a bloody infection on her thigh. The group isolates her in a shed. After fixing the truck, Burt begins coughing up blood, but does not tell the others. After Karen vomits blood on the truck, Jeff takes the groups remaining beer and leaves. Burt goes to the convenience store to get help, but incurs the wrath of Denniss father after Dennis bites him. Burt flees, chased by Denniss father and two friends. At the cabin, Marcy worries that they will all contract the disease. When Paul tries comforting her, they impulsively have sex. Regretting the affair, Paul leaves while Marcy takes a bath, crying. When she shaves her legs the flesh begins to peel off and she runs outside in a panic, where she is killed by Dr. Mambo. Paul discovers the hermits corpse floating in a reservoir and realizes the infection is spreading through the drinking water. Racing back to the cabin, Paul finds Marcys remains and Dr. Mambo feeding on Karen. After killing Dr. Mambo with Burts gun, Paul puts Karen out of her misery by bludgeoning her with a shovel. A dying Burt returns to the cabin pursued by Denniss father and his two companions. Burt is killed by the posse who shoot him, before Paul kills all three of them. Paul sets out to find Jeff. Finding the dismembered body of Grimm, Paul takes the group from the convenience stores truck and while driving discovers he is infected before hitting a deer. He reunites with Deputy Winston, who is partying with underage drinkers. Paul requests a ride to the hospital, but before the group departs, Winston is radioed about several infected people in a cabin going on a killing spree, ordering him to shoot the kids on sight. With the group turning on him, Paul attacks and infects several of Winstons friends before knocking Winston out. Paul is picked up by a passing truck and dropped off at a hospital. He is interrogated about the virus, but cannot provide any meaningful responses. The doctors inform the sheriff that Paul must be transferred to another hospital if he wants any chance of survival. The sheriff tells Winston to "take care" of Paul. Laying in the back of Winstons squad car, Paul tries to warn him about the drinking water by saying "water..." but Winston only responds by dumping him at the edge of a creek. The next day, Jeff, who has been hiding out and drinking in the woods, returns to the cabin. Initially crying after seeing the remains of his friends, he later becomes ecstatic upon realizing he is the only one who made it without being infected. As he raises his arms in victory, he is gunned down by Deputy Winston, who burns his body along with the others. Back at the convenience store, a couple of children sell lemonade, that they have made with water from the creek Paul was dumped in, to the same police officers. In addition, a large truck, filled with bottles of water taken from the creek, can be seen leaving the store.
Cabin Fever (2002 film)
2002