Jo is a hostess, also known as a "B" girl (a euphemism for a prostitute), in a "cliphouse", a seedy waterfront nightclub where the patrons are set up for a pickpocket operation. The club is owned by Eddie Morgan, who keeps an eye on things by posing as the piano player. A former hostess, Annie, returns to the club in order to tell Morgan off and let him know that he ruined her life. Not getting satisfaction, she attempts to get Jo to turn witness against Morgan in order to get him arrested, but Jo is too afraid. While there, Annie witnesses Jo being treated roughly by a local hood, Red Connolly (William Pawley), who she accosts, which turns into a brawl. Dan Walters, a sailor, and two friends show up at the club, and Jo begins to flirt with him. Finding that she likes him, she does not want to follow her usual routine of getting him drunk and taking his wallet, but Morgan insists. However, she is clumsy in her attempt, and is thwarted by Walters, who leaves, disillusioned with Jo, who he was beginning to like. Jo realizes that she would like to get out of her occupation, but Annies failure to start a new life after leaving makes her unsure. Morgan is furious that she failed to lift the wallet, and slaps her around, leaving her bruised. When Walters returns to the club later, he notices the bruises and in an effort to get Jo out of the situation, offers to marry her and move away with her. To assist in his plan to rescue Jo, Walters begins to snoop around in order to get dirt on Morgan. He uncovers quite a bit of illegal activity, and approaches Steve Mason, an undercover detective, with the information. Morgan learns from Nellie, the owner of another local establishment, of Walters plan to take Jo away, and also discovers that Walters has spoken to Mason. He attempts to do away with Walters; the result is an all-out brawl, during which Morgan himself is knifed to death. Annie confesses to stabbing Morgan and gives herself up to Mason, who takes her away.
Cafe Hostess
1940