Caligula is the young heir to the throne of his great uncle, the syphilis-ridden, half-mad Emperor Tiberius. One morning, a blackbird flies into his room; Caligula considers this a bad omen. Shortly afterward, the head of the Praetorian Guard, Macro tells Caligula that Tiberius demands his immediate presence at Capri, where the Emperor lives with his close friend Nerva, a dim-witted relative Claudius, and Caligulas younger stepbrother Gemellus. Fearing assassination, Caligula is afraid to leave but his sister and lover Drusilla persuades him to go. At Capri, Caligula finds that Tiberius has become depraved, showing signs of advanced venereal diseases, and embittered with Rome and politics. Tiberius enjoys swimming with naked youths and watching degrading sex shows that often include children and deformed people. Caligula observes with fascination and horror. Tensions rise when Tiberius tries to poison Caligula in front of Gemellus. Nerva commits suicide and Caligula tries to kill Tiberius but loses his nerve. Proving his loyalty to Caligula, Macro kills Tiberius instead with Gemellus as a witness. After Tiberius death and burial, Caligula is proclaimed the new Emperor, then proclaims Drusilla as his equal, to the apparent disgust of the Roman Senate. Drusilla, fearful of Macros influence, persuades Caligula to get rid of him. Caligula sets up a mock trial in which Gemellus is intimidated into testifying that Naevius murdered Tiberius, then has Naeviuss wife Ennia banished from Rome. After Naevius is executed in a gruesome public game, Caligula appoints Tiberius former adviser Longinus as his personal assistant while pronouncing the docile Senator Chaerea as the new head of the Praetorian Guard. Drusilla tries to find Caligula a wife among the priestesses of the goddess Isis, the cult they secretly practice. Caligula wants to marry Drusilla, but she insists they cannot marry because she is his sister. Instead, Caligula marries Caesonia, a priestess and notorious courtesan after she bears him an heir. Drusilla reluctantly supports their marriage. Meanwhile, despite Caligulas popularity with the masses, the Senate expresses disapproval for what initially seem to be light eccentricities. Darker aspects of Caligulas personality emerge when he rapes a bride and groom on their wedding day in a minor fit of jealousy and orders Gemelluss execution to provoke a reaction from Drusilla. After discovering that Milonia is pregnant, Caligula suffers severe fever. Drusilla nurses him back to health. Just as he fully recovers, Milonia bears him a daughter, Julia Drusilla. During the celebration, Drusilla collapses with the same fever he suffered. Soon afterwards, Caligula receives another ill omen in the form of a blackbird. Despite his praying to Isis out of desperation, Drusilla dies from her fever. Initially unable to accept her death, Caligula suffers a nervous breakdown and rampages through the palace, destroying a statue of Isis while clutching Drusillas body. Now in a deep depression, Caligula walks the Roman streets disguised as a beggar; he causes a disturbance after watching an amateur performance mocking his relationship with Drusilla. After a brief stay in a city jail, Caligula proclaims himself a god and becomes determined to destroy the senatorial class, which he has come to loathe. The new reign he leads becomes a series of humiliations against the foundations of Rome—senators wives are forced to work in the service of the state as prostitutes, estates are confiscated, the old religion is desecrated and the army is made to embark on a mock invasion of Britain. Unable to further tolerate his actions, Longinus conspires with Cassius to assassinate Caligula. Caligula enters his bedroom where a nervous Milonia awaits him. Another blackbird appears but only Milonia is frightened of it. The next morning, after rehearsing an Egyptian play, Caligula and his family are attacked in a coup headed by Cassius. While leaving the stadium, Caligulas Milonia and Julia are murdered, and Cassius stabs Caligula in the stomach. With his final breath, he defiantly whimpers "I live!" As Caligula and his familys bodies are thrown down the stadiums steps and their blood is washed off the marble floor, Claudius is proclaimed the new Emperor.
Caligula (film)
1979