Dr. Leonard Gillespie, the crusty senior diagnostician at New Yorks Blair General Hospital, has a severe disagreement with pupil, intern James Kildare, over a suspected case of Q fever. He decides to teach his stubborn assistant a lesson in dealing with the emotional causes of his patients ills as well as the physical. To accomplish this, he fires Kildare and has him reassigned to work in a neighborhood dispensary with nurse Mary Lamont, whom he enlists with the aid of head nurse Molly Byrd to "stooge" on the intern. On the day that Kildare begins his new job, young Red enters the dispensary and confidentially asks the intern to help an injured friend, Nick Lewett. He follows Red to a cellar hideout where he discovers that Nick is suffering from a gunshot wound. Kildare is on the verge of sending Nick on to Blair when Nicks sister Rosalie convinces him not to do so. Against hospital procedure and the law requiring reporting of all gunshots to the police, Kildare continues to treat Nick in the hideout, even after he knows that the boy is wanted for the murder of bookmaker "Footsy" Garson over a gambling debt. Smitten with Rosalie, he tells Mary he knows that shes been reporting back to Gillespie on his activities. Despite Marys resistance, Gillespie uses her obvious admiration for Kildare to persuade her to tell him what Kildare is up to, and tries to warn the intern that he is flirting with being an accessory to murder. He tries to persuade Kildare to at least reveal Nicks whereabouts, but Kildare is sure of Nicks innocence and refuses to do so. A worried Gillespie arranges with Kildares mother to call him home to help his physician father with a difficult patient, but when the intern returns, he is picked up by the police along with Nick. For his involvement, Kildare is yet again suspended from the hospital staff but remains determined to prove Nicks innocence. Learning from Nick that he went to see Garson after his friend Tom Crandell accused Garson of maligning Rosalie, Kildare decides to confront Crandell. With the help of ambulance driver Joe Wayman and his persuasive monkey wrench, Kildare compels Crandell into confessing that he killed Garson and shot Nick, suspicious of his relationship with Rosalie, to frame him. After Nick is exonerated, Gillespie visits Rosalie and deduces that she was Crandells girl friend. He steers her into admitting to Kildare that her only interest in him was to save her brother, and later confesses to Kildare that he arranged for Nicks arrest but that Kildare almost ruined the plan by returning from home. A little wiser, Kildare resumes as Dr. Gillespies assistant and begins to look at Nurse Lamont in a better light.
Calling Dr. Kildare
1939