Coleman Tarrant, the father of New Orleans schoolteacher Annie Tarrant, is murdered while investigating the deaths of three men in a manner similar to the Candyman legend. One year later — and three years after the Candyman murders in Chicago — Professor Philip Purcell writes a book about the latter case. Candyman kills Purcell in a public bathroom following a book signing. Annies brother, Ethan, is accused of Purcells murder because of previous confrontations between the two over the subject. After one of Annies students claims to have seen the Candyman, she tries to discredit the legend by invoking his name. Annie summons Candyman to New Orleans on the eve of Mardi Gras, where the killings begin in earnest. Her husband, Paul Mckeever, becomes one of Candymans victims, while one of her students, Matthew, disappears. The Candyman is revealed to be Daniel Robitaille, son of a slave on a plantation in New Orleans. Daniel was chosen by a wealthy landowner to paint a portrait of his daughter Caroline, resulting in an affair between the two. After Caroline became pregnant, Carolines father organized a lynch mob to hunt down Daniel, cut off his right hand, and coat him in honey from a nearby beehive. A small boy tasted the honey and proclaimed "Candy Man!"; the crowd chanted the name as Daniel was stung to death. Carolines father taunted the disfigured Daniel with Carolines mirror, leading to the mirror containing Candymans soul. Caroline hid the mirror in Daniels birthplace before giving birth to his daughter, Isabel, a Creole who is raised by her mother as white. The mirror grants Candyman his ability to kill when called upon. Annie is revealed to be the descendant of Daniel and Caroline. Candyman stalks Annie so he may kill her and himself at midnight on Ash Wednesday. After talking with Ethan, Annie visits Honore Thibideaux, who tells her Caroline moved to New Orleans after Daniels death. Candyman appears and kills him with bees while Annie escapes. At the police station, Candyman slays a detective interrogating Ethan, who is shot dead when he tries to escape. Octavia, Annies guilt-ridden mother, admits Coleman tried to link their family to Candyman but denies he exists. Incensed by her disbelief of him, the Candyman introduces himself before killing her; Annie flees. It is revealed that Coleman, driven to madness at his search for the mirror, eventually gave in and summoned Candyman to justify his search at the expense of his life. Annie flees to Daniels birthplace, where she finds Matthew. She falls through the stairs into the flooded basement, where she finds the mirror and Candyman. He reveals that the mirror is the source of his resurrection and tries to sacrifice her. Annie destroys the mirror, destroying Candyman in the process. The slave quarters crash into the river, but Matthew saves Annie by pulling her out. Several years later, Annie has Pauls daughter, who she has named Caroline. After Annie kisses Caroline goodnight and leaves the room, Caroline starts to chant Candymans name. Annie stops her and tells her to go to bed.
Candyman 2: Farewell to the Flesh
1995