The film begins with a reenactment of the gruesome events of cannibalism as described by the prosecuting attorney during Alferd Packers trial in 1883. Packer insists that things happened differently than what has been recounted, and begins to tell his story to journalist Polly Pry through flashback ("Shpadoinkle"). In 1873, a group of miners in Bingham Canyon, Utah hear of new gold discoveries in Breckenridge and decide to travel to Colorado Territory to stake a claim. After the original guide, Lucky Larry, dies from a lightning strike, Packer is nominated as the replacement since he claimed knowledge of the area ("Shpadoinkle [Reprise]"). He and his trusty horse, Liane, set off on what Packer estimates will be a three-week journey with a party of five miners: Shannon Wilson Bell, an aspiring Mormon priest; James Humphrey, who was forced by his father to join the party; Frank Miller, a cynical butcher who reluctantly joins their party at the mine; George Noon, a teenager hoping to meet women in Breckenridge; and Israel Swan, an optimist. Four weeks later, while attempting to visit Provo for supplies they become convinced they are lost. An attempt to ask a local for directions to Provo proves unsuccessful, with the local warning them of impending doom awaiting them in the mountains. Finally arriving at a frontier post in Provo, they run into a group of three fur trappers bound for Saguache; O.D. Loutzenheiser, Preston Nutter, and their diminutive leader, Jean "Frenchy" Cabazon. The trappers despise the miners, whom they contemptuously call "diggers", yet seem to like Packer’s horse, telling Packer that shes a "trapper horse". Making camp, Packer and company reveal their goals for traveling to each other in song ("Thats All Im Asking For"). The next day, Packer wakes up to discover his horse and friend, Liane, is missing. After Bell wounds his leg in a bear trap, the men attempt to cross the Green River near the Utah border. The group asks Packer if there are any other big rivers that they will have to cross to which he replies, “Oh no, just the Colorado River.” They camp out for the night after their crossing, with Packer singing a heartfelt song about Liane ("Ode to Liane"). Eventually, the Packer party is spotted by two “Nihonjin” Indians (obviously played by Japanese actors and speaking Japanese). They are taken back to the tribes encampment where the chief warns them of a winter storm, allowing them to wait it out with the tribe. Packers party also find the trappers camping out with the tribe, who proceed to brag about their lives in song before a small altercation breaks out over Liane, whose feedbag Packer finds in their possession ("Trapper Song"). The story returns to the present time, where Packer is sentenced to death by hanging, with his execution to occur in Lake City. That night, alone, Polly muses over the case and Packers testimony, and she reveals her growing affection for him through song ("This Side of Me"). The next day, Polly visits Packer once again in prison, where he continues his story. The men set out in the wilderness after Packer learns the trappers have already left, persuading them to leave under the guise of there being a break in the storm. The group begins to suspect that Packer is really only interested in following the trappers to find his horse. They soldier on until they encounter a foreboding "Cyclops" while unwittingly trying to steal one of his sheep, who recalls how a Union soldier shot out his eye in the Civil War. He realizes Packers men are not “Southern boys” after they can not finish the lyrics to "Dixie". They escape and the badly frostbitten Swan tries to cheer everybody up with a song about building a snowman ("Lets Build a Snowman"). They soon run out of food, resorting to eating their shoes as they become lost in the snow-covered Rocky Mountains. Out of frustration, Bell shoots Swan in the head because he does not appreciate his (Swans) Pollyanna-esque perspective on their predicament ("Lets Build a Snowman [Reprise]"). The men discuss their dire situation that night over the fire, speaking of the cannibalism that the Donner Party had to resort to in California. They decide to consume the body of their dead companion (but “not the butt”) as Miller cuts up Swans body, and only Bell refuses to partake in the cannibalism. Packer then has a ballet-inspired nightmare involving himself, Liane, and Cabazon. A few more days leads to talk of sacrificing one of their own. Packer convinces them for one more chance for a scouting trip, but when he returns, Bell has killed the others, claiming they planned to kill and eat him after Packer left. Packer is forced to kill Bell after threatening to turn him in, realizing he has gone insane. He is then forced to cannibalize the others to wait out the rest of the winter. Arriving in Saguache sometime later, Packer finds Liane, who has taken to Cabazon. The sheriff of Saguache, suspicious of Packer arriving without the rest of his party, eventually finds out the fate of the other members and attempts to arrest Packer for cannibalism during a bar-fight between him and the trappers, which he wins. Packer attempts to flee to Wyoming, only to later be arrested there and brought back to Colorado to await judgement. On the day of Packers execution in Lake City, the town breaks into song, celebrating Packers impending death ("Hang the Bastard"). However, he is saved at the last minute by Polly, who arrives on the scene with Liane. Polly reveals that Packer had gotten a stay of execution from the governor stating that he could not be convicted of a state crime since Colorado was not a state at the time of the incident. Cabazon, who wants revenge against Packer for their fight in Saguache and claims the townsfolk came to see bloodshed, tries to trigger the gallows. The Nihonjin chief saves Packer by cutting his rope with a katana before beheading Cabazon, satisfying the crowds blood-lust. Packer, seeing that Polly brought back Liane, realizes he doesnt need her anymore, and chooses Polly (much to the excitement of the chief, who takes off after Liane with his katana), and the two kiss, only to be frightened by a still-alive Bell ("Shpadoinkle [Finale]").
Cannibal! The Musical
1996