The story begins with Dr. Iannis, an experienced and multilingual doctor who has a well-established practice on the Greek island of Cephallonia. Iannis lives with his daughter Pelagia; Pelagias mother died of tuberculosis when Pelagia was still a girl. Pelagia, now a young woman, is headstrong and intelligent, and has learned about medicine by observing her father. Some of the subsequent chapters, however, are told from the perspective of Carlo Guercio, a homosexual Italian man who has decided to join the Italian army which has been raised under the rule of Benito Mussolini during World War II. Pelagia meets a young fisherman named Mandras, and they rapidly become engaged. Meanwhile, war has been declared, and Mandras decides to go fight at the front. Pelagias letters to him go unanswered. Carlo Guercio fights among the Italian forces that invade Albania, and watches his beloved friend Francesco be shot by the defending Greek army. The Italian army is hopelessly incompetent, and eventually German forces arrive and drive back the Greek army, thus paving the way for Italy to occupy Greece. In 1941, following the Italian invasion of Greece, Italian and German soldiers are posted to Cephallonia, where they are ostracized by the locals. Pelagia is determined to hate them, especially when a jovial young captain by the name of Antonio Corelli is assigned to live in her home. Mandras comes home from the war, injured and filthy, and as Pelagia nurses him she realizes that she no longer loves him. He admits that he is illiterate, which explains why he never answered Pelagias letters. Soon after he is recovered, Mandras leaves again to join the underground. Pelagia gradually comes to know Corelli, and discovers that he is conscientious, civilised, humorous and far from fanatical, as well as being a consummate mandolin player. They inevitably fall in love, and become engaged, Pelagia being convinced that Mandras has died. After Mussolini loses power, Italy joins forces with the Allies. The Italians who occupy Greece thus are freed from their duties. However, the Italian army refuses to be disarmed by the Germans, and instead fight them. After defeating the Italian division, the German soldiers on Cephallonia turn on the Italians, and order a massive execution. Corellis life is saved by Carlo Guercio, who shields him with his body when they face execution by firing squad. Guercio dies, and the wounded Corelli is aided by a Greek man back to Pelagias house. Corelli has to stay hidden from the German soldiers, whose orders are to kill any surviving Italians. As soon as he is well enough, Corelli escapes to Italy, promising Pelagia that he will return as soon as the war ends and then they will be married. Corelli leaves Antonia, his mandolin, with Pelagia for safekeeping. The Germans become brutal, and Dr Iannis is sent to a camp. Mandras returns, indoctrinated with Communist ideologies and having learned to read. He has read Pelagias letters and knows that she does not love him, so he tries to rape her. Ashamed, he later commits suicide. Some time after, a baby girl is left on Pelagias doorstep, whom Pelagia adopts. Dr Iannis comes home traumatised. Life goes on in Cephallonia, though interrupted by the 1953 Ionian earthquake, in which Iannis dies. Yet Corelli does not return, though Pelagia is convinced she sees his ghost. The baby girl, whom Pelagia has named Antonia, grows up and marries. Many years later, an old man visits Pelagia, who is revealed to be Antonio Corelli, now a famous mandolin player. He explains that he did not visit before because, having seen her with baby Antonia on her doorstep and believing her to be married, he was bitter. The novel ends on a happy note.
Captain Corelli's Mandolin
2001