Tom chased Jerry into the then-brand new Metropolitan Opera House, where Georges Bizets Carmen is being performed, but is quickly thrown off the premises by the guard. Tom attempted to get in by disguising himself as a musician and carrying a large string double bass case, successfully bluffing his way through by holding the case in front of his body. He opens a double bass case, a cello case, a viola case, a violin case, and finally a violin. Whilst trying to catch Jerry, Tom kept running afoul of an angry conductor, who believed Toms antics are ruining his opera. Jerry eventually escapes into a break room and lures millions of ants onto hundreds of blank pages of the score. He gets Toms attention, and as Tom tried to get him at the conductors stand, the spotlight goes back on. Tom has no choice but to conduct the orchestra. However, Jerry causes the ants to change positions, causing Tom to misconduct the music, to the point where it changes to American songs such as "American Patrol", "Yankee Doodle", "Dixie", and "Therell Be a Hot Time in the Old Town Tonight". Finally, the ants scatter and Tom sees Jerry. Just after Tom catches Jerry, the conductor returns and Tom runs off. The opera finally begins, and the singer playing Carmen walks onto the stage. She is just about to begin singing the "Habanera", when she suddenly screams because she sees Jerry dressed like a toreador and dancing at the front of the stage. But Tom took the stage and caught Jerry, but the conductor thinking that Tom had ruined the opera suspiciously. This is the final straw for the conductor and he goes on the stage and blocks Toms way, indicating that he has had enough of Toms shenanigans and wants to harm him. Jerry gave a terrified Tom a red blanket, and the conductor goes wild like a furious bull. The dignified opera thus devolved into a farcical bullfight between Tom and the conductor while Jerry took over the conducting duties. After the music finishes, Jerry bowed down to the audience, and the ants spelt the words "THE END" on the book pages, as Carmen Get It closes to thunderous cheering and applause.
Carmen Get It!
1962