Witnesses of the "Black Prom", including high school student Sue Snell and gym teacher Rita Desjardin, are interviewed by the police. Detective John Mulcahey is investigating the disappearance of a former high school student and suspect of arson named Carrie White. These interviews reveal the preceding events: Two weeks before the prom at Ewen High School, Carrie is a shy girl who is tormented by the popular girls, including Christine "Chris" Hargensen and Tina Blake. When Carrie has her first period in the shower, the girls taunt her until Ms. Desjarden intervenes and comforts Carrie. Principal Morton decides to send Carrie home but addresses Carrie by the wrong name. An infuriated Carrie yells out, causing Mortons desk to move several inches. Making her way home, Carrie is accosted by a boy on a bicycle, whose joke goes wrong when he inexplicably flies off his bike and crashes into a tree. On arrival at her house, Carrie has a flashback to her own childhood and her special abilities. Carries fanatically religious mother, Margaret White, who considers menstruation a sign of sexual sin, locks Carrie in her "prayer closet" as punishment. The next day, Ms. Desjarden gives the girls a weeks detention for their bullying of Carrie. When the girls skip detention, they face being refused prom tickets. After Chris father, John Hargensen, a lawyer, unsuccessfully attempts to get her prom ban rescinded, Chris enlists her boyfriend, Billy Nolan, to get revenge on Carrie. Meanwhile, Carrie discovers she has telekinesis, the ability to move or control objects with her mind. After a telekinetic episode in class, Carrie goes home and practices her rediscovered talent. Sue, trying to atone for tormenting Carrie, asks her boyfriend, Tommy Ross, to take Carrie to the prom. With some trepidation, Carrie agrees. When Carrie tells her mother about the prom invitation, Margaret forbids her to go. At last, Carrie is provoked into using her powers to confront her mother and Margaret seemingly gives in. On the day of the prom, Tina switches the Prom Queen ballots so that Carrie and Tommy are declared the Prom King and Queen winners. As Tommy and Carrie take their place onstage, Chris, who has been hiding with Billy in the rafters, pulls a rope to tip a bucket, causing a wave of blood to fall onto Carrie. When Chris and Billy run, Chris having released the rope, the bucket falls on Tommys head, knocking him out. Carrie goes into a shock-induced trance and locks everyone inside the gym, killing them all, except for a few students who escape through a vent with Ms. Desjarden. Carrie then leaves the burning school, unleashing a wave of destruction upon the rest of the town. Chris and Billy find her walking in the road. Billy tries to run her down but Carrie tosses their truck into a pole, killing them. When Carrie arrives home, she gets into a bathtub, where she finally snaps back to herself but cannot remember what has just happened. Margaret walks into the bathroom and deems her daughter a witch for destroying the whole town and then attempts to drown Carrie in the tub (as an attempt to avenge and save the town). With her last ounce of strength, Carrie stops her mothers heart. Sue finds Carrie near death and manages to revive Carrie with artificial respiration. At Sues suggestion, Carrie fakes her own death and Sue sneaks Carrie out of town to Florida where she will be safe from the law. As the two drive off, Carrie has a nightmarish vision of her mother. When Carrie wakes, she hallucinates that Chris is lunging at her. Noticing this, Sue asks her if she wants to stop for a moment, but Carrie tells her to keep driving until they reach Florida.
Carrie (2002 film)
2002