Alone in her home, Margaret White, a disturbed religious fanatic, gives birth to a baby girl, intending to kill the infant but changes her mind. Years later, her daughter Carrie, a shy, unassertive girl, nears her graduation from Ewen High School in Maine. While showering after gym class at school, Carrie experiences her first menstrual period, then naively thinks she is bleeding to death. The other girls ridicule her, and longtime bully Chris Hargense records the event on her smartphone and uploads it to YouTube. Miss Desjardin, the gym teacher, comforts Carrie and sends her home with Margaret, who believes menstruation is a sin. Margaret demands that Carrie abstain from showering with the others. When Carrie refuses, Margaret hits her with a Bible and locks her in her "prayer closet." As Carrie screams to be let out, a crack appears on the door, and the crucifix in the closet begins to bleed. Miss Desjardin informs the girls who teased Carrie that they will endure boot camp-style detention for their behavior. Chris, however, refuses, causing her to be suspended from school and banned from the prom after denying the allegation on the incident and refusing to give up her smartphone, thinking that the explicit video of Carrie is in there. Chris storms out, vowing revenge. Carrie learns that she has telekinesis, the ability to move things with her mind. She researches her abilities, learning to harness them. Sue Snell regrets teasing Carrie in the shower room and attempts to make amends by asking her boyfriend, Tommy Ross, to take Carrie to the prom. Carrie accepts Tommys invitation, and after school, goes into the town and buys red velvet fabric, and makes a dress at home. When she tells her mother, Margaret forbids Carrie to attend. Asking her mother to relent, Carrie manifests her telekinesis. Margaret believes this power comes from the Devil and is proof that Carrie has been corrupted by sin. Chris, her boyfriend Billy Nolan, and his friends plan revenge on Carrie. They kill a pig and drain its blood into a bucket. Margaret tries to prevent Carrie from going to the prom, but Carrie locks her mother in the closet using her telekinetic powers. At the prom, Carrie is nervous and shy, but Tommy kindly puts her at ease. As part of Chris and Billys plan, Chris friend, Tina Blake, slips fake ballots into the voting box, which name Carrie and Tommy prom queen and king. At home, Sue receives a text from Chris taunting her about her revenge on Carrie. Sue drives to the prom, arriving just as Carrie and Tommy are about to be crowned. Sue sees the bucket of pigs blood dangling above Carrie, but before she can warn anyone Miss Desjardin hustles her out, suspecting that Sue is planning to humiliate Carrie. Chris dumps the bucket of pigs blood onto Carrie and Tommy. Chriss shower video appears on large screens above the stage, inciting laughter from some in the audience, until the bucket falls onto Tommys head, killing him. Enraged, Carrie takes her revenge with her telekinesis, killing nearly all of the students and staff, but spares Desjardin. A fire breaks out and, as the school burns to the ground, Carrie walks away, leaving a trail of fire and destruction in her wake. Chris and Billy attempt to flee in Billys car. Chris urges Billy to run Carrie over, but Carrie flips the car into a gas station, setting it on fire, and killing them. Carrie arrives home and she and Margaret embrace. Margaret tells Carrie about the night of Carries conception. After having shared a bed platonically with her husband, they yielded to temptation one night and, after praying for strength, Carries father "took" Margaret, who enjoyed the experience. Margaret attacks Carrie, who attempts to flee and ends up killing her with several sharp tools. She becomes hysterical and makes stones rain from the sky to crush the house. When Sue arrives, a furious Carrie grabs her with her powers, but senses something inside Sue, and tells her that she is pregnant with a baby girl. Carrie pushes a stunned Sue out of the house to safety as the house collapses and apparently kills Carrie. After giving her testimony in court regarding the prom incident, Sue visits Carries vandalized grave and places a single white rose by the headstone. As she leaves, the gravestone begins to break and Carries angry scream is heard.
Carrie (2013 film)
2013