MI6 agent James Bond gains his licence to kill and status as a 00 agent by assassinating the traitorous MI6 section chief Dryden at the British Embassy in Prague, as well as his terrorist contact, Fisher, in a bathroom in Lahore, Pakistan. In Uganda, the mysterious liaison Mr. White introduces warlord Steven Obanno of the Lords Resistance Army to Le Chiffre, a terrorist financier. Obanno entrusts Le Chiffre with a large sum of money to invest safely for him; instead Le Chiffre uses it to buy put options on the aerospace company Skyfleet, thus betting the money on the companys failure. In Madagascar, Bond pursues bomb maker Mollaka to an African embassy, shooting him dead and blowing up the building. In London, MI6 chief M admonishes Bond for having violated international law, and advises him to rethink his future as an agent. Clues from Mollaka point to corrupt Greek official Alex Dimitrios. Bond finds Dimitrios in the Bahamas and, after seducing his wife Solange, pursues him to Miami. Bond kills Dimitrios and follows his henchman to the airport. He thwarts the destruction of Skyfleets airliner, costing Le Chiffre his investment. To recoup the money, Le Chiffre sets up a high-stakes Texas hold em tournament at the Casino Royale in Montenegro. MI6 enters Bond in the tournament, believing a defeat will force Le Chiffre to seek asylum with the British government, which they will grant in exchange for information on his clients. On the train to Montenegro, Bond meets Vesper Lynd, a British Treasury agent there to protect the governments $10 million buy-in. In Montenegro, Bond and Vesper meet their MI6 contact, René Mathis. Bond gains the upper hand at the start of the game. During a break, Obanno, furious at the loss of his investment, ambushes Le Chiffre in his suite. After Obanno leaves Le Chiffres room, Bond engages him and strangles him to death. Vesper is traumatised by the encounter, but Bond comforts her. When the tournament resumes, Bond loses his initial stake, and Vesper refuses to fund further playing. Frustrated, Bond is about to kill Le Chiffre when he meets Felix Leiter, a fellow player and CIA agent who is on the same mission as Bond. Leiter, on the verge of losing, agrees to stake Bond on the condition that the CIA takes custody of Le Chiffre after his defeat. Bond rapidly rebuilds his position before the next break. Le Chiffres girlfriend, Valenka, spikes Bonds martini with poison. Bond vomits and retreats to his Aston Martin to inject himself with an antidote. MI6 instructs him to use the defibrillator, but a wire is disconnected; Vesper saves Bond by reconnecting the wire. Bond returns to the game just as Leiter loses his last hand to Le Chiffre. The tournament culminates in a $115-million hand in which the remaining players, including Bond and Le Chiffre, go all in. Le Chiffre trumps the other players, but Bond wins with a straight flush. After Bond and Vesper share a romantic dinner, Vesper is kidnapped by Le Chiffres men. Bond pursues them in his Aston Martin. He sees Vesper lying in the street and swerves to avoid her, crashing his Aston Martin. They are taken captive by Le Chiffre. Before Bond falls unconscious, Le Chiffre reveals that Mathis was his mole in MI6. Le Chiffre tortures Bond for the password to the account containing the money, but Bond refuses to give in. As Le Chiffre prepares to castrate Bond, White bursts in and shoots him dead. Bond awakens in a hospital on Lake Como as Mathis is taken in by MI6. Bond decides to resign from MI6 to be with Vesper. Bond and Vesper travel to Venice. M calls Bond and tells him the money was never deposited. Bond calls Mendel, the Swiss banker responsible for the monetary transactions following the poker tournament, to figure out what is going on. Mendel informs Bond that the money has been deposited, but is being withdrawn as they speak. Realizing Vesper has stolen it, Bond pursues her and her clients into a building. The building is damaged in the struggle and begins to sink into the Grand Canal, with Vesper trapped inside. Bond kills Vespers clients and attempts to save her, but she refuses his attempts and drowns. White, watching nearby, walks away with the money. Bond rejoins MI6 and copes with Vespers death by denouncing her as a traitor. M informs him the same organization behind Le Chiffre had kidnapped Vespers lover and threatened to kill him unless she became a double agent. During the torture with Le Chiffre, Vesper made a deal: the money in exchange for Bonds life. Bond discovers a text message left for him by Vesper with Whites name and phone number. At his estate in Lake Como, White receives a phone call from Bond. As he asks for the callers identity, Bond shoots him in the leg, then introduces himself: "The names Bond... James Bond."
Casino Royale (2006 film)
2008