In a ghost train where spirits are heading towards the Ghost Central, Casper has no idea of where he is, nor is he aware that he is a ghost himself. He gets kicked off the train and finds himself in the city of Deedstown, where he unintentionally scares a bunch of the towns citizens, which leads him to the realization that he is a ghost. Meanwhile, a loner boy named Chris Carson, with a passionate obsession of the supernatural, has a strained relationship with his work-obsessed father Tim Carson, who is attempting to demolish the Applegate Mansion, to make way for a new renovation for the town: building a brand new mini-mall in its place. However, a group of protestors are against the demolition, as the house was confirmed to be a historical landmark. The bickering was cut short when the wrecking crew that Tim hired and protestors were terrorized by the Ghostly Trio, Stretch, Stinkie and Fatso, who are in possession of the Mansion. Chris witnessed this after seeing the group running in panic, and wants to join the Trio, but they refuse since he is only human. The train that Casper was on arrives in Ghost Central run by the evil and feared Kibosh, where new spirits are trained to learn the proper ghost lifestyle and work to receive a haunting license. After discovering Caspers absent, Kibosh becomes furious about the idea of letting a rookie ghost being let loose without any education and forces his spineless assistant Snivel to find Casper and bring him back. After saving Chris from detention when a gang of bullies, led by Brock attempt pull a prank by dropping a balloon full of gunk on him, but landed on the school principal instead, Chriss teacher, Sheila Fistergraff, who is leading protesters becomes outraged after she and Chris witness in the news, that Tim and the towns mayor: Johnny Hunt will proceed with the demolition project as planned, despite a series of setbacks, after the mayor threatens to dismiss Tim if he does not do the job. Chris runs into Casper, and instantly befriends him, much to Caspers surprised to see that a human isnt afraid of him. Chris insists on teaching Casper to be a real ghost while also introducing him to the Trio. Much to the Trios delight, they discover that Casper hasnt gone to the Ghost Central and has therefore never been educated by Kibosh, which gives them the opportunity to train Casper and prove themselves to Kibosh, so he would stop chasing them. However, they are unknowingly eavesdropped on by Snivel, who informs Kibosh of their plan, much to Kiboshs rage. Casper manages to succeed in his first lesson in going into the stealth mode (going invisible), but fails at every other lesson, leading the Trio to realize that Casper is too soft to be a terrifying ghost: he wants to be friendly, which forces them to kick him out. After a night of waiting for his fathers arrival at his schools open house, Chris gets disappointed that he never showed up as Fistergraff tries to comfort and support Chris. The next morning, Tim decides to make it up to him by spending more time with him. Chris offers to teach Casper to become a better ghost after Casper informed on what happened. Casper manages to succeed by using his powers on Brock getting him into trouble with the principal, when Brock and his friends were teasing Chris, and so he tests his new powers by scaring away a man who attempts to rob a convenience store, and is thanked by the owner for saving his life, which gives Casper the idea to use his ghostly powers to help people. After Tims office accidentally catches on fire by Bill Case, a professional bomber he hired to blow up the mansion, he is unable to attend the plans he made with Chris earlier, but Chris hopes Tim will remember their other plans. After Casper and Chris set up dinner for Tims arrival, Snivel sees Casper acting like a servant to a human and leaves to report back to Kibosh, to which Kibosh is unable to tolerate any further, and prepares to retrieve Casper himself. The Ghostly Trio discover Caspers good deeds and abduct him in attempt to save their reputation, which unfortunately ruins Chriss opportunity to have Tim meet Casper as Tim does not believe Chris, and instead leaves to visit the mayor, which leads Chris to the solution to run away, for feeling betrayed by Casper, but gets captured and locked inside the mansion by Brock and his gang for getting him a month of detention, unaware that a bomb has been implanted inside by Bill. The next morning, Kibosh arrives in Deedstown, captures The Trio, and forces Snivel to find Casper. After discovering that Chris ran away, Tim meets Casper, and they both set out to find him, with Casper assuming that he is in the Applegate Mansion, which is about to explode, so Tim hitches a ride with Fistergraff as Casper arrives at the mansion to find Chris, and try to help him escape. Tim manages to get Chris out and Casper eats the bomb, which explodes in his stomach, saving the mansion. With Kibosh being impressed with Caspers technique, Casper informs him that the Ghostly Trio taught him how to do it, so Kibosh decides to let Trio stay and haunt, which led to The Trio returning Casper the favor by lying to Kibosh saying that they are Caspers uncles, after Kibosh informs them the importance of family, which allows Casper to stay with his "uncles" and Kibosh to leave them in peace. Chris and his father reconcile and Brock and his gang get their comeuppance when the Trio hangs them from the branches of a nearby tree by their underwear. The dear Casper decides to go with a new name: Casper the Friendly Ghost.
Casper: A Spirited Beginning
1997