Using a spaceship furnished with wooden tables and rolling chairs, a "scientific expedition" to the Moon encounters a race of Cat-Women, the last eight survivors of a 2-million-year-old civilization. Residing deep within a Moon cave, where they have managed to maintain not only the remnants of a breathable atmosphere and Earth-like gravity but also a pair of gigantic spiders, the Cat-Women sport black unitards, beehive hairstyles, and elaborate cosmetics. Realizing that the remaining air in their cave will soon be gone, the Cat-Women plan to steal the expeditions spaceship, migrate to Earth, and in the words of the Cat-Womens leader, Alpha (Carol Brewster), "We will get their women under our power, and soon we will rule the whole world"! Through the use of their telepathic ability, the Cat-Women have been subliminally controlling Helen Salinger (Marie Windsor), the mission navigator and only female member of the expedition. Once the expedition arrives on the Moon, the Cat-Women take complete control of Helens mind, after which she leads the entire crew (clad in heavy spacesuits and equipped with matches, cigarettes, and a gun) to the Cat-Womens cave. Although unable to control the male minds, the Cat-Women are nevertheless able to influence the male crew through the mind-controlled Helen, their own superior intellectual abilities, and feminine wiles. As explained to Helen by the Cat-Woman named Beta (Suzanne Alexander), "Show us their weak points. Well take care of the rest". Along with telepathy, the Cat-Women have the ability to transport themselves, unseen and instantly, from place-to-place within their living space. They use this ability to steal the crews spacesuits from the mouth of the Moon cave, where they had been left unguarded. This forces the crew deeper into the cave and into violent confrontations with two resident Moon spiders and the Cat-Women themselves. Having failed to exterminate them, the Cat-Women approach the men openly, using Helen to help establish friendly relations. Kip (Victor Jory), who has been suspicious throughout the encounter, confronts Alpha about the missing spacesuits, and she promises to return them in the morning. Food and drink are then brought, and private conversations between crew and Cat-Women begin. As the conversations progress ("Youre too smart for me, baby. I like em stupid") the gun-wielding Kip sits alone, unable to intervene, while the Cat-Women successfully exploit the "weak points" of expedition commander Laird (Sonny Tufts) and the other men. By that evening, the Cat-Women have learned how to pilot the spaceship. Following a modern dance performance by the Cat-Women, Walt (Douglas Fowley) is stabbed to death by Beta. However, the Cat-Woman named Lambda (Susan Morrow) falls in love with crew member Doug (William Phipps) and tells him of their plot, saying, "I love you Doug, and I must kill you". With this news, the male crew conclude that they are in danger. Carrying three spacesuits, Alpha, Beta, and Helen make a break for the spaceship. Lambda teleports ahead to delay them, and is bludgeoned to death by Beta with a Moon rock. Kip catches up, and fires several shots, killing Alpha and Beta, but leaving Helen uninjured. The surviving expedition members escape the cave, reach their spaceship, and begin their return trip to Earth.
Cat-Women of the Moon
1953