Captain John Yossarian, a U.S. Army Air Force B-25 bombardier, is stationed on the Mediterranean base on Pianosa during World War II. Along with his squadron members, Yossarian is committed to flying dangerous missions, and after watching friends die, he seeks a means of escape. Futilely appealing to his commanding officer, Colonel Cathcart, who continually increases the number of missions required to rotate home before anyone can reach it, Yossarian learns that even a mental breakdown is no release when Doc Daneeka, explains the "Catch-22" the Army Air Corps employs. As explained, an airman "would be crazy to fly more missions and sane if he didnt, but if he was sane hed have to fly them. If he flew them he was crazy and didnt have to; but if he didnt, he was sane and had to." Another strange "catch" in the movie involves Major Major, who had recently gotten promoted by Brigadier General Dreedle, who didnt like the look of the name "Capt. Major" on the roll call. Capt. Major was promoted to Major Major and put in charge of a squadron, but Major didnt want to be bothered, so he told First Sgt. Towser that if someone wanted to talk to Major Major, the person had to wait in the waiting room until office hours were over, unless Major wasnt in his office. Then the visitor could go right in, but Major wouldnt be there. Trapped by this convoluted logic, Yossarian watches as individuals in the squadron resort to unusual means to cope; Lt. Milo Minderbinder concocts elaborate black market schemes while crazed Captain "Aarfy" Aardvark commits murder to silence a girl he raped. Lieutenant Nately falls for a prostitute, Major Danby delivers goofy pep talks before every bomb run and Captain Orr keeps crashing at sea. Meanwhile, Nurse Duckett occasionally beds Yossarian. Yossarian survives an attempt on his life when an unknown assailant stabs him (in the novel it was "Natelys whore," and in the directors commentary Nichols says he regrets not making this clear in the film): the murder attempt is shown in the films start and ending. Once recovered, Yossarian sets out to sea in a raft, paddling to Sweden, after he learns from the Chaplain and Major Danby that it is now the refuge for Captain Orr, whose repeated crash landings had been a subterfuge for practicing and planning his own escape from the madness.
Catch-22 (film)
1970