Jerry is sleeping in a hammock. Tom then walks out with a drink, radio, pillow and newspaper and goes to sit on the hammock until he hears Jerry snoring. Tom unhooks the hammock to send Jerry sliding into the water. Angry, Jerry flips the hammock over, causing Tom to fall out and get his drink stuck in his throat. Tom then whacks the hammock to send a sleeping Jerry flying into the air, but Jerry lands in a birds nest, which rolls Jerry down the tree and back onto the hammock before Tom can lay down. Tom then picks Jerry up on a spatula and places him onto a walking army of ants, causing Jerry to wake up as he bumps his head on a sprinkler. Jerry then uses a rake to direct the ants to walk onto the hammock, with their violent marching causing the strings to snap and the hammock to fold up with Tom inside it. Tom ties the strings back together, but is very cautious of his surroundings this time. Meanwhile, Jerry hears a bullfrog croaking on a lily pad and kicks it into Toms drink, causing Tom to swallow the frog when he gulps his drink. The frog jumps around in Toms body, causing Tom to bounce into the pond and allowing Jerry to return to the hammock. Tom chases Jerry, but Jerry activates a lawn mower. Tom gets stuck in the hammock as the mower runs into him, turning Tom into a paper doll. Tom goes to sleep with a baseball bat, but Jerry hooks the hammock to a rope attached to a well and cuts the line, sending Tom flying through the air. Tom, still asleep, wakes up to see a plane passing directly overhead (literally a foot over his head) but its only when a seagull passes him by that he thinks to look down, managing to let out a hoarsely high-pitched scream before gravity kicks in and he hits the ocean below hard enough that he breaks into several pieces. Anticipating a revenge attack, Jerry lures Spike onto the hammock with a bone, causing Tom, unaware, to remove the hammock, roll it up and whack it progressively harder each of seven times with the bat. Tom pulls out a dog collar and tries to imagine who it belongs to. After discrediting Jerry, Tom gulps in fear when he guesses right the 2nd time: Spike. He then appears from under the hammock, extremely mad and sporting two purple eyes and several lumps. Tom tries to flee, but Spike beats him up. Tom is then seen waving a leaf at a sleeping Jerry while Spike ends up continually kicking him.
Cat Napping
1951