At the Central Park Zoo in New York City, Serbian-born fashion designer Irena Dubrovna makes sketches of a black panther. She catches the attention of marine engineer Oliver Reed, who strikes up a conversation. Irena invites him to her apartment for tea. As they walk away, one of Irenas discarded sketches is revealed to be that of a panther impaled by a sword. At her apartment, Oliver is intrigued by a statue of a medieval warrior on horseback impaling a large cat with his sword. Irena informs Oliver that the figure is King John of Serbia and that the cat represents evil. According to legend, long ago the Christian residents of her home village gradually turned to witchcraft and devil worship after being enslaved by the Mameluks. When King John drove the Mameluks out and saw what the villagers had become, he had them killed. However, "the wisest and the most wicked" escaped into the mountains. Oliver is openly dismissive of the legend even though Irena clearly takes it seriously. Oliver buys her a kitten, but upon meeting her it hisses. "Cats just dont like me," Irena explains and she suggests they go to the pet shop to exchange for it. When they enter the shop the animals go wild in her presence. The shopkeeper says that animals can sense things about people. It gradually becomes clear that Irena believes she is descended from the cat people of her village, and that she fears that she will transform into a panther if aroused to passion. Despite Irenas odd beliefs, Oliver persuades her to marry him. However, during the dinner after their wedding at a Serbian restaurant, a catlike woman walks over and addresses Irena as "мојa сестрa" (moya sestra, "my sister"). Irena never sleeps with her husband, fearful of the consequences. He is patient with her, when she says she felt compelled to throw her accidentally-killed canary into the panthers cage, he persuades her to see a psychiatrist, Dr. Louis Judd. Judd tries to convince her that her fears are of a mundane nature, and stem from her childhood traumas. Irena is unhappy to discover that Oliver has confided in his assistant, Alice Moore. Alice confesses to Oliver that she loves him. When Irena chances to see Oliver and Alice seated together at a restaurant, she follows Alice as she walks home alone. Just as Alice hears a menacing sound, a bus pulls up and she boards it. Soon after, a groundskeeper discovers several freshly killed sheep. The pawprints leading away turn into imprints of a womans shoes. Irena returns to her apartment looking dishevelled and exhausted; she is shown shortly afterwards weeping in the bathtub. Irena dreams of Dr. Judd dressed up as King John speaking of "the key". Later, she steals the key to the panthers cage. Irena, Oliver and Alice visit a museum, and Irena is angered when the former two shut her out. That evening, when Alice decides to use the basement swimming pool of her apartment building, she is stalked by an animal. She jumps into the pool. When Alice screams for help, Irena turns on the lights and says she is looking for Oliver. A little later, Alice finds her bathrobe torn to shreds. After a talk with Dr. Judd, Irena tells Oliver she is no longer afraid, but Oliver tells her it is too late: he has realized that he loves Alice and intends to divorce Irena, who misses a meeting arranged between her, Oliver, Alice and Dr. Judd. Later at work Oliver and Alice are cornered by a snarling animal. Oliver and Alice manage to get out of the building but not before smelling Irenas perfume. Alice calls Judd to warn him to stay away from Irena, but he hangs up when Irena arrives for her appointment with him. He kisses Irena passionately. He is frightened by what happens next and dies in a struggle. When Oliver and Alice arrive, Irena slips away and goes to the zoo. There, she opens the panthers cage with the stolen key and is struck down by the escaping panther, which is accidentally run down and killed by a car. Oliver and Alice find the panther lying on the ground. Oliver says, "She never lied to us."
Cat People (1942 film)
1942