Beauregard Bottomley is a polymath who lives in Los Angeles with his piano-instructor sister Gwenn (Barbara Britton) and an alcohol-guzzling parrot they found named Caesar (voiced by Mel Blanc). Beauregard is knowledgeable on any subject -- except how to hold a job. In front of a store window, Beauregard and Gwenn watch a quiz show, Masquerade for Money, hosted by Happy Hogan and sponsored by Milady Soap. Costume-wearing contestants answer questions, with the prize money doubling with each right answer (in the style of the 1940s radio show The $64 Question), starting at $5 and going up to $160. They can quit anytime, but a wrong response results in no money. Beauregard is contemptuous of the show and what he deems its dumbing down effect on the country. Beauregard goes for a job interview at the Milady Soap Company. He meets the eccentric owner, Burnbridge Waters. Waters disapproves of Beauregards humor and rejects him. To get even, he goes on the program dressed as an encyclopedia. Before the questions begin, Happy Hogan starts to praise Milady Soap, but Beauregard says that it works just like any other soap, outraging Waters. Beauregard easily answers the maximum six questions, then requests one more, which he also gets right, earning $320. Beauregard turns down the money and asks to return next week. Waters decides to invite Bottomley back for one question per show for six weeks and heavily publicize it. At the end, they will give him an impossibly hard question. Masquerade for Money tops the ratings and sales of Milady Soap skyrocket. When Beauregard answers the question intended to stump him, Waters becomes uneasy. Happy offers to take piano lessons from Gwenn to try to find Beauregards weakness. Beauregard sees through the scheme, but Gwen sneaks out on a date with Happy anyway. When she tells Happy that she and her brother think he is just trying to get information from her, he admits it, but also says he is glad to have met her. She tells him that Beauregard intends to win $40 million and take everything Waters has. Happy tells Waters, who cancels the show and sends Beauregard a check for his current winnings ($40,000), which Beauregard refuses to accept. After sales plummet, Waters is forced to reinstate the show, and Beauregard reaches $10 million. Waters calls in "Flame" ONeill (Celeste Holm) to distract Beauregard. Beauregard catches a cold, so Flame pretends to be a nurse. He quickly succumbs to her charms (as does Waters). Flame breaks their dinner date to undermine his self-confidence and peace of mind. The night of the show, he reveals that he never mastered Albert Einsteins "space-time theories". The next question is about Einsteins views of space-time. Realizing Flame has betrayed him, Beauregard struggles to come up an answer. It is incorrect. However, Einstein himself calls on the telephone to say that Beauregards answer is right. Afterward, Beauregard confronts Flame, who has fallen for him. Unaware of this, Beauregard spanks her with her hairbrush and informs her that he deliberately misled her; he actually "spent an entire season with Einstein". However, he also admits that he fell madly in love with her. Waters books the Hollywood Bowl for the last show. Happy and Gwenn and Beauregard and Flame plan to marry. Beauregard and Gwen caution each other that their would-be spouses could just be after the money. They both call and suggest marrying before the show, but Happy and Flame come up with excuses. On the big night, Happy asks Beauregard what his Social Security number is. He gets it wrong. To the joy of Beauregard and Gwenn, Flame and Happy still want to marry them. Waters shows up at their home, bearing gifts, including champagne. It turns out that Caesar used to be Waters pet. As Beauregard and Flame drive off to Las Vegas to get married, Beauregard reveals that he and Waters made a deal where he would lose in exchange for his own radio show, some stock and other considerations. Beauregard then admits that he actually did not know the answer.
Champagne for Caesar
1950