George Schneider is an author living in New York City whose hours are occupied by his work, by softball games in the park and visits from his married brother Leo, a press agent who has been trying to introduce widower George to eligible women. Georges emotions are still raw from the death of his wife, and he continues to be reminded of her. George is given the phone number of a Jennie MacLaine, an actress Leo recently met through her friend Faye Medwick, and dials it accidentally while intending to call someone else. After an awkward exchange, he repeatedly phones Jennie to explain why he called, even though she makes it clear that she, too, has no interest in a blind date. Georges persistence results in her accepting his proposal of a "five-minute" date, face-to-face. If that doesnt go well, he promises to leave her alone. They meet at her apartment and immediately hit it off. Jennie is recently divorced from a professional football player. George asks her for a traditional date and she accepts. At dinner, he explains how Leo has set him up on a number of disastrous dates, so he now finds himself pleasantly surprised to be with someone like her. Leo is pleased and so is Faye, whose own marriage is on the rocks. To their astonishment, George and Jennie decide to get married after knowing each other only a brief time. Leo feels his brother is going much too fast. Faye asks to use Jennies apartment while the couple is away on their honeymoon. An idyllic trip to the Caribbean follows and George and Jennie are very happy, at least until another tourist who recognizes him extends condolences about Georges deceased wife. He immediately sinks into a depression that continues through their return to New York. At his home, Jennies attempts to cheer up George are met with curt responses and insults. She returns to her own apartment to discover that Faye is having an affair there with Leo. The marriage appears to be over almost as quickly as it began. George comes to his senses just in time, realizing how much he loves Jennie and how he doesnt want to lose her.
Chapter Two (film)
1979