Charlie Countryman, a man living in Chicago, is distraught after the death of his mother Kate. At the hospital, he sees her as a spirit and asks her what he should do with his life. She replies by telling him to go to Bucharest because she believes it seems right to do. On the flight, he meets Victor, an elderly man sitting next to him, who is returning home to Bucharest after seeing a Cubbies game, with a silly hat as a gift for his daughter. Partway through the plane ride, Victor dies, and Charlie sees him too as a spirit, who asks him to deliver his gift to his daughter, which he promises to do. Arriving at the airport, he is hassled over the hat by the authorities, but eventually meets Victors daughter, Gabi, whom he falls instantly in love with. After he gives her Victors gift, they part. While in a taxi, he finds Gabi in her car on the side of the road. She tells him she cant keep up with the ambulance containing her fathers body, and he offers to help catch up to them. They suddenly cause the ambulance truck to crash and flip over, with Victors body flying out of it. Gabi is taken to the hospital by another ambulance, leaving her car with Charlie. He takes the car to Bucharest opera house to drop off her cello, not before finding a revolver in her bag. Following a stage performance, Gabi is confronted by her estranged and unstable husband, Nigel. Gabi suddenly spots Charlie walking by, and Nigel notices and questions him aggressively. Gabi lies that Charlie is a tuba player, after which Nigel leaves. Charlie arrives at a hostel and meets his roommates, Karl and Luc. After partying for a while, Charlie enters the bathroom and encounters Nigel, who was waiting inside to apologize for his earlier behavior. After departing, Charlie then sees Gabi walking, and they spend the night out. Later, they part ways with Gabi telling him that if he finds her the next day, she will kiss him. The next day, Charlie wakes up to find out that Karl has taken too much viagra, and they go to a club seeking medical help. The trio are shocked with their bill and are taken to a backroom by security. There, they meet Darko, a friend of Nigel who questions Charlie of his involvement with Gabi. At night, Charlie meets Gabi at her house for a house gathering in honor of Victor. Gabi takes her to the attic to kiss him. Later on, Nigel shows up and finds Charlie there and openly expresses his doubt that Charlie is a tuba player. Gabi forces Nigel to leave by threatening to shoot him. After the guests leave, Gabi tells Charlie of how she made the mistake of marrying Nigel. He listened to her cello performances at the café where she grew up playing. Gabi realized too late that Nigel was an active criminal. Her father found an incriminating tape to use against Nigel to force him to leave the country, but it never worked. Charlie then confesses that he is in love with her, and they have sex. The next morning, Charlie finds Gabi gone and a note telling him to not leave the house. Charlie explores the house and discovers a room filled with tapes, accidentally discovering the tape Victor threatened Nigel with, revealing security footage of him killing several people in a restaurant. A disturbed Charlie leaves the house and find Gabi and Nigel at a nearby restaurant. He approaches them and explains that he "saw the tape." Nigel violently interrogates Charlie until the police arrive and take Charlie away. The cops tell him that Gabi doesnt want to see him anymore and that he will be taken to Budapest. Upon arrival at the hostel to get his belongings, he is alerted by the presence of Nigels associates. They chase Charlie to a subway, where he escapes and runs back to Gabis home to find the tape. He finds Darko and the same men waiting for him, showing Karl and Lucs backs glued together outside. Gabi calls Darko regarding the tape, prompting Darko to leave the house. Charlie waits for Gabi at the Opera House, where she tells him that she doesnt want to see him again and says goodbye. She goes to her car with Nigel, who has the tape and intends to destroy it so that life with Gabi can continue. A saddened Charlie once again speaks to the ghost of his mother, who says that she is proud of him and hopes he doesnt die. After she disappears, he runs to Gabis car and attempts to stop Nigel, only to be knocked unconscious. He wakes, hanging from a rope by his ankle above a boat dock. Nigel burns the tape and prepares to shoot Charlie, but decides to let Gabi do it. She ends up sparing Charlie just as the cops arrive. Charlie is dropped into the lake and survives, and Nigel commits suicide by cop. The film ends with Karl and Luc finally being separated from the super glue, and Charlie and Gabi finally together in a relationship.
Charlie Countryman
2013