Charlie Bucket is a kind and loving boy living in poverty with his parents and four bedridden grandparents. They all rely on his father for income, employed at a toothpaste factory, responsible for putting the caps on the tubes. Mr. Bucket is later laid off when the factory replaces him with a machine that puts the caps on the tubes. Down the street is Willy Wonkas chocolate factory, which reopened after industrial espionage forced him into seclusion and sacking his employees. Charlies Grandpa Joe worked for Wonka before the termination. Wonka announces a contest whereby children that find Golden Tickets hidden in five Wonka bars will be given a tour of the factory and a lifetime supply of chocolate, and one a chance to be presented with an unknown grand prize. Four tickets are quickly found: the greedy and gluttonous Augustus Gloop from Düsseldorf, who found the ticket while eating a bar; the spoiled and rotten Veruca Salt from Buckinghamshire, who made her father buy as many Wonka bars as possible; the gum chewing and boastful Violet Beauregarde from Atlanta, who gave up gum and started buying bars after hearing of the tickets; and the arrogant and aggressive Mike Teavee from Denver, who retracked the manufacturing dates and hacked the system. Charlie hopes to find a ticket, but his chances are small as money is tight, and the best has to be made of his annual birthday present of one Wonka bar and a bar bought by Grandpa Joes money, both of which yield no tickets. All hope is seemingly gone when the last ticket is apparently claimed in Russia. Charlie, on finding some money in the street, just intends to enjoy one chocolate bar when news breaks that the ticket was fake. To Charlies surprise, he finds the bar he just bought has the real last Golden Ticket. Bystanders attempt to separate him from it, only for the shopkeeper to see that he keeps the ticket, and gets back home with it. When Grandpa Joe sees the ticket, he jumps out of bed and dances with joy. He offers to accompany Charlie on the tour, but Charlie explains how he was offered money for the ticket, and intends to sell it. Grandpa George reminds Charlie that money is far more common than the tickets, and convinces Charlie to keep it. Upon meeting him on the day of the tour, the visitors find Wonka to be peculiar, lonely, and acting odd at the mention of "parents". The tour shows how the fantastical factory operates under the efforts of the short humans called Oompa-Loompas. As Charlie seems to enjoy the entire tour, the other four children succumb to temptation, ending up being caught in the factory workings, and have to be safely recovered by the Oompa-Loompas, albeit in worse shape than at the start of the tour: Augustus falls into a river of chocolate and is pulled in by a pipe before being rescued from the fudge processing center; Violet expands into an oversized blueberry when she tries an experimental piece of chewing gum despite Wonkas warning; Veruca is thrown away as a "bad nut" by trained squirrels down the garbage chute; and Mike is shrunk down after being the first person transported by Wonkas new television advertising invention. The four leave the factory revealing their deformities; a chocolate-covered Augustus, a much more flexible but still blue Violet, a garbage-covered Veruca and her father, and a taller and paper-thin Mike who was overstretched with the "taffy puller". During the tour, flashbacks reveal Wonkas troubled childhood; his strict father, Wilbur, a prominent dentist, forbade Wonka from candy consumption, but after managing to sneak a taste, he became hooked, and later ran away from home to live his dream. He then returned several days later to find his father and home completely gone. Wonka then brings Charlie and Grandpa Joe home using the Great Glass Elevator. Upon arrival, Charlie is congratulated as the only remaining child and the winner of the grand prize: being named heir to Wonkas factory (and presumably, his company). Unfortunately, Wonka stipulates that Charlies family has to stay behind; therefore, to Wonkas dismay, Charlie rejects the offer. Wonka then sadly flies back to the factory in his great glass elevator, leaving a hole in the roof. Mr. Bucket is later given a new job at the toothpaste factory as a technician. Some days later, Wonkas candies are selling poorly, and he comes to associate his unhappiness with the financial state of his company, so he makes an effort to find Charlie. After discovering Wonkas troubled past, Charlie helps him locate his father. When they visit, it appears that despite his strict prohibition of candy, the dentist has followed Willys success, and they reconcile. Wonka allows Charlies family to move into the factory, while he and Charlie plan new product lines to produce.
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (film)
2005