The Road Runner, known as Boulevardius Burnupius, giving Wile E. a "come-on" to chase him, and the camera moves to Wile and freezes to show he is Dogius Ignoramii for this cartoon. The chase continues until the coyote stops to read a sign, but the Road Runner pulls up behind him and beeps the coyote into another headache. Not deterred by this one bit, the coyote continues his dastardly plans: he leaves the Road Runner a free snack on the edge of a cliff while he sneaks up behind his enemy and tries to eat him. However, sensing the danger, the Road Runner extends his neck all the way around the screen and beeps in the back of the coyote. In a similar scheme to one used in the previous cartoon, Wile now locks and loads an ACME Giant Mouse Trap and leaves it in the road for the Road Runner to trip. Despite his failures with it, the coyote loads himself into a spring attached to a rock and lets go as the Road Runner passes. The Voices of Spring Waltz plays on the music track as Wile E. ends up being carried across the plateau. Wile E. eventually moves into thin air, and soon catches on to the situation, gulps, and falls. The coyote leaves this with his neck also coiled up like a Slinky. With these newer cartoons come more ludicrous products, such as ACME Instant Road, which Wile E. rolls out across an arch and down the straight slope in an effort to get the Road Runner to follow him, until he runs out of road and he is left staring at the ground. Before he falls he holds up a sign saying "In heavens name, what am I doing?" and when he falls he holds another one saying "BYE!" The coyote attempts to launch himself with a bow to chase the Road Runner, but the bow simply freezes without firing. He hangs in midair for a couple seconds before he realizes this, and attempts to fix it by twanging the bowstring. He enjoys the sound it produces and proceeds to play a rendition of Those Endearing Young Charms, until it activates and launches Wile E. into a cactus. The Cactus Costume has arrived, and Wile puts it on and hops out into the road while the Road Runner is passing him. However, he fails to grab the Road Runner and wraps his arms around himself, causing massive pain due to the spines. After Catty Wile E. escapes from the costume, he kicks the box into the desert. As the Road Runner pulls up to another outcropping and signals to the coyote, Wile attempts to see-saw his way over to his rival with a rock and board. However, when the rock lands on the other side, it causes the board to smash into the coyote, and the rock then lands on the thin edge of the board, resulting in it wedging the edge of the outcropping away. This falls to the earth, with Wile, the board, the rock, and two smaller rocks located next to the see-saw following it. As the board looms over the coyote, Wile heaves it into the air before a rock hits the ground, then the outcropping edge, followed by the coyote on the right and the other rock on the left. This causes the coyote to be thrown upwards and bump his head directly on the falling board before he drops on the right side of the outcropping edge and jumps the second rock onto himself, as the board wedges just to the right. Another rather ludicrous ACME product: ACME Lightning Bolts takes up the remainder of the cartoon. With the safety gloves, the coyote grabs a lightning bolt and successfully sizzles a practice saguaro. He throws a second one at the Road Runner, who stops and takes stock of the situation, and turns the other way as the electricity chases him. The bolt and bird chase all over the mountains until they enter a tunnel. When they come out, the lightning somehow has overtaken the Road Runner, who beeps at the lightning to get it to reverse. The hapless coyote hurts himself repeatedly with white-hot lightning in his back, across the landscape and even off into the sunset.
Chariots of Fur
1994