Sylvestre Bonnard is an aging book collector. While going through his mementos one afternoon he comes across a brief note written by a former lover. Studying it, he realizes that it is written on a page torn from a rare book that he has been seeking for decades. Excited, he decides to return to his home town, where he and the lover had their romance, to search for the book. When Bonnard arrives, he meets an attorney, Mouche, through which he discovers that his old flame had a daughter, who now lives in a girls boarding school. Mouche is the girls guardian. Failing to find the book in his search, Bonnard travels to the school to speak with the daughter, Jeanne. On his arrival, he is dismayed to find that both Mouche and the schools headmistress, Mlle. Prefere, treat the young 15-year old cruelly. He is also entranced by the young lady, so much so that the focus of his trip now turns from a search for the book to an attempt to rescue the girl. Sensing a way to escape the confines of the school, and unbeknownst to Bonnard, Jeanne convinces Mlle. Prefere that he is romantically interested in her. When Bonnard returns to his home in Paris, Jeanne tells Prefere that Bonnard would be thrilled if they paid him a visit there. When they arrive, Bonnard is thrilled, which Prefere misinterprets as a show of romantic interest. As time goes on and they remain in Paris, Prefere becomes more and more convinced that Bonnard is indeed in love with her. When she broaches the subject of marriage to the aging bibliophile he is aghast at the suggestion. In the ensuing confusion, Jeanne confesses her subterfuge, which causes Prefere to understandably react angrily. Embarrassed, Prefere ushers Jeanne back to the school, barring Bonnard from attempting to visit the young girl, to whom he becomes strongly attached. Without permission, Bonnard travels to the school and, with Jeannes wholehearted cooperation, whisks her away, with the intent of adopting her. Upon discovery of the girls disappearance, Mouche realizes where she must have gone and goes to Paris to confront Bonnard. When he does, he offers to sell Jeannes adoption to Bonnard, and for not pressing kidnapping charges, for a large sum of money. Wishing to get the girl out of her unfortunate circumstances, Bonnard agrees to the sale, but the only way he can raise the money is by selling his book collection. Distraught at the prospect of giving up his beloved books, but seeing no other way, sets up a time to complete the sale. However, Coccoz, a traveling bookseller with whom Bonnard is acquainted, shows up at the last minute and it is discovered that Mouche had stolen the rare book which had begun Bonnards search in the first place. Not only has he stolen the book, but it is also found out that he had forged the original papers giving him custody of Jeanne. With the tables turned, Mouche agrees to Bonnards adoption of Jeanne, and forgoes any payment.
Chasing Yesterday (1935 film)
1935