Tom Baker is a football coach at a small rural college in Midland, Michigan, where he met his future wife, Kate, and together, they gave birth to 12 children (Nora, Charlie, Lorraine, Henry, Sarah, Jake, Mark, fraternal twins Jessica and Kim, Mike, and identical twins Kyle and Nigel). In her narration, Kate has written her story into a book and hopes to send it to her friend to publish the book. Meanwhile, Tom unexpectedly receives an offer from his old friend and football teammate, Shake McGuire, to coach at his alma mater in his hometown of Evanston, Illinois. Tom accepts the offer, and he and Kate begin making plans on returning to Evanston. The kids find out and demand the move be put to a vote, even though Tom says it would not have any power. He loses the vote, even after he and Kate decide to join, but goes ahead with the move anyway, claiming there will be more money and that they will be a "happier and stronger family". The atmosphere at the Bakers new house is tense and the situation at school is even worse. Later, the Bakers meet their next-door neighbors, the Shenk family--which consists of Bill, Tina, and their son, Dylan. After a series of mishaps, Dylan invites the younger kids to his birthday party. Shortly afterwards, Kate tells Tom that she is leaving on her book tour now that her book is ready for publication, leaving Tom to take charge of the kids. Tom decides to hire the familys oldest child, Nora, and her self-absorbed boyfriend, Hank, to help him with the other children. The younger kids soak Hanks boxers in meat, and unleash the family dog, Gunner, on him. After Nora storms out with Hank, Tom scolds the younger kids for their naughty prank. Kate departs for her book tour and Tom realizes that he cannot handle the children on his own after a chaotic night. In reply to this revelation, Tom tries to hire a housekeeper or nanny, but nobody is willing to work with a family as large as the Bakers. The children start causing trouble at school, so Tom decides to bring the football players he coaches into the familys house for game practice while the children perform chores and their household games. When things get completely out of control, Tom grounds the kids from attending Dylans birthday party. While Toms back is turned, the kids sneak out to attend the party anyway. At Dylans party, Jake tells Mike to go get the football they got for Dylan so they can play with it. When he does, he knocks some of the presents over, and the Brazilian mud viper they also got for him escapes. The resulting panic causes Tom to realize the kids had disappeared, and decide to enlist all the players to round them up. Tom tries to remove Sarah from the bounce house, but during the chaos, a helium tank falls on the bounce house, causing it to overinflate, then explode, sending Tom and several kids flying through the air. While the football players successfully catch Sarah and the other kids, Tom accidentally lands on top of Dylan, breaking his arm and he is taken to the hospital. Kate overhears from the children about the chaos and cancels the book tour to take charge of the situation. Kates publisher decides to create an additional promotion for her book by inviting Oprah Winfrey to tape a segment about the Bakers in their home instead. Despite much coaching from Kate, the Bakers are not able to demonstrate the loving, strongly bonded family that Kate described in her book. When Mark becomes upset that his pet frog has died, a heated fight erupts moments before the segment starts, leading the cameramen to tell Winfrey to cancel it. Mark runs away from home, prompting the Bakers to find him. During the search, Tom indulges a hunch that Mark is trying to run back to the Bakers old home, and eventually finds Mark on an Amtrak train departing from Evanston to Midland. Reuniting with the rest of their family, the Bakers begin to address their issues with each other. Tom ultimately step down from his position at his alma mater with Shake. The film ends when Kate narrates that family become stronger and closer together.
Cheaper by the Dozen (2003 film)
2005