Two years after Chucky was destroyed by the Barclays and detective Mike Norris, the killer "Good Guy" doll Chucky (voiced by Brad Dourif) is rebuilt from scratch by the PlayPals company to prove there is no fault with the dolls. As a result of Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent) blaming Chucky for the murders committed, the company has suffered. One of the men working on Chucky is killed by electrocution; as a result, the CEO of the company Mr. Sullivan (Peter Haskell) orders his assistant Mattson (Greg Germann) to cover the accident and get rid of Chucky. Meanwhile, Andy is now in foster care, due to his mother being in a mental hospital for supporting his story about Chucky. Andy is adopted by Phil (Gerrit Graham) and Joanne Simpson (Jenny Agutter). In his new home, Andy meets his new foster sister Kyle (Christine Elise). After work, Mattson goes to a corner store and while he leaves his car, Chucky uses the car phone to ring Grace Poole (Grace Zabriskie), the manager of Andys foster center. He claims to be a relative of Andys in order to get his new address. He then hijacks the car and orders Mattson to drive outside the Simpson household at gunpoint. Chucky then kills him by suffocating him with a plastic bag. In the house, Chucky accidentally activates "Tommy", another "Good-Guy" doll, and destroys him with Joannes ornament. Chucky then buries the doll in the garden and takes his place as "Tommy". Phil punishes the children believing one of them broke the ornament. After Andy spends the rest of the day with Kyle, Chucky waits for nightfall and ties up Andy in order to possess him, but the ritual is stopped by Kyle. After Andy claimed Chucky tied him up, Phil throws Chucky in the basement. The following day, Chucky hitches a ride on the bus to Andys new school. Andys teacher Miss Kettlewell (Beth Grant) discovers an obscenity Chucky wrote on his worksheet. Believing Andy was responsible, she forces Andy to stay in the classroom as punishment and locks Chucky in the closet. Andy manages to escape, and Chucky beats Miss Kettlewell to death with a yardstick. After Andy insisted Chucky got him in trouble, Phil considers taking him back to the foster center. Later that night, Andy tries to kill Chucky with an electric knife in the basement, but Chucky attacks him. Phil goes to investigate the commotion but Chucky trips and neck-snaps him, killing him. Joanne, convinced that Andy murdered Phil, sends him back to the foster center. Kyle discovers the buried doll in the garden and realizes Andy was telling the truth all along and rushes in to warn Joanne only to find her dead. Chucky attacks Kyle and orders her to take him to the center to find Andy. There, during a false fire alarm, Chucky kills Grace and orders Andy to take him to the PlayPals "Good-Guy" factory for the transfer. Kyle follows Chucky and Andy to the factory. After knocking Andy unconscious once again, Chucky attempts the ritual to transfer his soul into Andy, but it fails midway since he spent too much time within the dolls body. Enraged, Chucky decides to kill both Andy and Kyle instead. Chucky murders a factory worker. He then loses one of his hands, which he replaces with his knife, and his legs, but still goes after the two. Kyle and Andy then pour molten plastic over him before inserting an air hose in his mouth, which causes his head to explode and finally defeating him. Andy and Kyle leave the factory for "home", with Andy asking where "home" is and Kyle responding that, in truth, she doesnt know. The last scene features a piece of Chucky in a vat of molten plastic. The plastic is then molded into a new head and then it grins evilly, which was not shown in theaters.
Child's Play 2
1990