In 2027, after 18 years of global human infertility, civilization is on the brink of collapse as humanity faces extinction. The United Kingdom, one of the very few stable nations with a functioning government, is deluged by asylum seekers fleeing the chaos and war that has taken hold around the world. In response, the UK has become a police state as the British Army round up and detain immigrants. Theo Faron, a former activist turned cynical bureaucrat, is kidnapped by the "Fishes", a militant immigrants rights group. They are led by Theos estranged wife, Julian Taylor, from whom he separated after their son Dylans death during a 2008 flu pandemic. Julian offers Theo money to acquire transit papers for a young refugee named Kee, which Theo obtains from his cousin Nigel, a government minister who runs a state-sponsored collection of salvaged art from around the world. The transit papers require that the bearer must be accompanied, so Theo agrees to escort Kee in exchange for a large sum. Luke, a Fishes member, drives them and former midwife Miriam towards Canterbury. They are ambushed by an armed gang, and Julian is killed. They evade the police, and hide Julians body in the forest before heading to a Fishes safe house. Kee reveals to Theo that she is pregnant, and that Julian had told her to trust only Theo. Julian had intended to hand Kee to the "Human Project", a supposed scientific group in the Azores dedicated to curing infertility; however, Luke persuades Kee to stay, and is voted as the new leader of the Fishes. Later that night, Theo eavesdrops on a discussion and learns that Julians death was orchestrated by the Fishes so Luke could become leader; they intend to kill Theo and use the baby as a political tool to support the coming revolution. Theo wakes Kee and Miriam, and they steal a car, escaping to the secluded hideaway of Theos aging friend Jasper Palmer, a former political cartoonist turned pot dealer. The group makes plans to board the Human Project ship Tomorrow, which will arrive offshore from a refugee camp at Bexhill-on-Sea. Jasper proposes getting Syd, a camp guard to whom he frequently sells drugs, to smuggle them into Bexhill masquerading as refugees. The Fishes discover Jaspers house, and the group flees while Jasper stays behind to stall the Fishes; Luke shoots and kills Jasper as Theo watches from the woods. The group meets Syd at an abandoned school, who helps them board a bus to Bexhill. When Kee experiences contractions while at a checkpoint, Miriam distracts a suspicious guard by feigning mania and is taken away. Inside the camp, Theo and Kee meet a Romanian woman, Marichka, who provides a room where Kee gives birth to a baby girl. The next day, Syd informs Theo and Kee that war has broken out between the British Army and the refugees — led by the Fishes. Having learned that they have a bounty on their heads, Syd attempts to capture them, but they fight him off and escape. Amidst the fighting, the Fishes capture Kee and the baby. Theo tracks them to an apartment under heavy fire; he confronts Luke, who is then killed in an explosion, and escorts Kee and the baby out. Awed by the baby, the combatants temporarily stop fighting and allow the trio to leave. Marichka leads them to a hidden boat, but chooses to stay behind as they depart. As aircraft bomb Bexhill from a distance, Theo reveals that he had been shot by Luke. He tells Kee how to wind her baby to soothe her crying, and Kee tells Theo she will name her after his and Julians lost son, Dylan. Theo loses consciousness as the Tomorrow approaches through the fog.
Children of Men
2006