On the night of November 9, 1988, serial killer and fugitive Charles Lee Ray is seen running through the streets of South Side, Chicago. Charles is left behind after his accomplice Eddie Caputo manages to escape. After he is fatally shot in a toy shop by homicide detective Mike Norris, Charles transfers his soul into a "Good Guy" doll via a Haitian Vodou spell. A bolt of lightning causes the shop to explode. Mike, who survives the explosion, finds Charles body. The next day, widow Karen Barclay purchases the same doll (now known as Chucky) from a peddler as a birthday gift for her six-year-old son Andy Barclay. Later that evening, Karens friend Maggie Peterson babysits Andy. After putting Andy to bed, Maggie is hit in the face with a hammer and falls out the window to her death. The police search the apartment. Detective Norris deems Andy a suspect, much to the annoyance of Karen, who orders Mike and the police to leave once they complete their investigation. The next morning, Chucky orders Andy to skip school and take the Chicago "L" downtown. While Andy is urinating, Chucky sneaks into Eddies lair, turning off a stoves pilot light but turning up the gas. As Eddie shoots the stove, the house blows up, killing him. Andy, once again a suspect, is placed in a psychiatric hospital. That night, Karen discovers that Chuckys batteries were never inserted, and that Andy was telling the truth about Chucky functioning on his own power. While she is inspecting the doll, Chucky comes to life, bites her arm, and escapes. She then finds Mike at the station and shows him the bite wound that Chucky made. He does not believe her and leaves. After being attacked by Chucky in his car, Mike finally agrees to help Karen. Chucky goes to John Bishop, Charles Lee Rays former voodoo teacher. When Chucky asks why he is able to bleed, John informs him that the longer his soul remains trapped within the doll, the more human the doll will become; in order to escape the dolls body, Chucky must transfer his soul to the first person he revealed his possession to, which happens to be Andy. When John rejects Chuckys plea for help, Chucky fatally stabs John using a voodoo doll. Chucky escapes just before Karen and Mike arrive on the scene. Before dying, John tells them that although Chucky is a doll, his heart is not fully human and vulnerable to fatal injury. At the mental hospital, Chucky steals the key to Andys cell, but Andy is able to trick Chucky with pillows under the bed sheets and escape his cell. Dr. Ardmore finds Andy in the surgery room. Just before Andy is being sedated, Chucky stabs Dr. Ardmore and electrocutes him with an Electroconvulsive therapy machine, killing him. He chases Andy home, knocking him unconscious with a baseball bat. Chucky then begins possessing Andy. Karen and Mike arrive and stop him before Chuckys soul is transferred. Chucky slashes Mike, then goes after Karen and Andy. Soon, the pair trap Chucky in the fireplace and burn him alive. Karen and Andy leave the room to help Mike, but a heavily burned Chucky follows them and attempts to kill them, since burning him alive didnt work. Chucky is again thought to be killed when Karen shoots off his head, arm, and leg. Mikes partner Jack Santos arrives at the apartment, and disbelieves the trios story just before Chuckys body then bursts through a ventilation duct and tries to strangle Jack. During the struggle, Karen tells Mike to aim and shoot at Chuckys heart (as John told them to do) which Mike does finally killing him. While Mike, Jack and Karen go to the hospital, Karen turns off the bedrooms lights and Andy looks back at Chuckys burned remains before closing the door.
Child's Play (1988 film)
1998