Park Plaza Mall has just installed a state-of-the-art security system which includes security shutters across all exits and three high-tech security robots programmed to disable and apprehend thieves using tasers and tranquilizer guns. Four couples consisting of Rick and Linda, Greg and Suzie, Mike and Leslie, and Ferdy and Allison, decide to have a party in one of the furniture stores where three of them work. After hours, all of them (with the exception of Alison and Ferdy) begin to have sex, drink, and party inside the furniture store. Outside, a lightning storm strikes the mall several times and damages the computer controlling the security robots, resulting in them killing their technicians and a janitor before going on regular patrol in the now-empty mall. Mike and Leslie leave the furniture store and are killed outside by the robots, and the others begin to separate after witnessing this. The men break into a sporting-goods store to arm themselves with firearms; the girls take gasoline and flares from an automotive store. Using a propane tank, the men blow up and seemingly destroy one of the robots. While the men set up the mall elevator as a booby trap, the robots ambush the girls and manage to ignite Suzie by shooting her gasoline canister, killing her. Greg sees this, and unsuccessfully tries to shoot the robot before Rick drags him away. The teenagers, now regrouped, rig the elevator trap on the second robot, destroying it. They then hide out in the restaurant where Allison works. Inside, Greg confronts Allison and Linda about leaving the air ducts and soon exhibits rage due to Suzies death, going far as pulling his gun on Ferdy when he intercedes on Allison and Lindas behalf. Rick manages to calm him down, and Ferdy suggests destroying the robots main control center in hopes that it would shut them down. As the group agrees on this, they head to the control center located on the malls third floor. Greg is soon killed by the remaining robots by being tossed over the railing and falling to his death three floors below. While on the run, they also find the first robot recovered after its earlier defeat. The four remaining survivors, Allison, Ferdy, Rick, and Linda, take refuge inside a department store. They set up mannequins in an attempt to confuse the robots outside the upper-level floor, which works when the machines fire at the dummies and one of them is blinded from its own reflected laser. Linda is killed by the blinded robot and an enraged Rick drives a golf cart into the robot; he is killed by a bolt of electricity, but his actions successfully destroy the machine. As the final robot corners Alison, Ferdy rescues her and shoots it at point blank, damaging its laser just before he is rendered unconscious. Despite an injured leg, Alison escapes into the paint store, and sets up a trap mixing paint and chemicals. She lures the robot inside, where it becomes stuck from its tracks unable to find traction on the spilled paint and thinners, and tosses a flare into the store, igniting the chemicals and ultimately destroying the final robot. As she leaves the store, Ferdy awakens from the upper mall, and the two are the final survivors as daylight appears in the mall. In a postcredits scene, a robot rolls up to the camera and says "thank you, have a nice day."
Chopping Mall
1986