John J. Baggs Jr. (James Caan) a peacetime sailor and a Vietnam veteran, checks into the Seattle Naval bases medical facility for minor treatment requiring tests. The testing results delay keep him from rejoining his ship when it sails. After he gets a clean bill of health, he finds out that he is unable to get paid or receive new orders because the U.S. Navy has lost his records. While they continue to search for his lost records, he is able to come and go from the base until the midnight curfew with a "Cinderella Liberty" pass issued by the medical facility. On his first night in a bar, he is racing the clock to find a woman, and spots Maggie (Marsha Mason), an attractive woman hustling sailors at a pool table. He challenges her at pool, and develops an interest in the woman, who turns out to be a prostitute living in a tenement with her bi-racial 10-year-old son Doug (Kirk Calloway). Baggs runs into Doug who is out drinking beer, and begins spending time with him. He also develops a relationship with Maggie, while going on outings with Doug, who is often left to fend for himself. Baggs attempts at creating a normal life for her, and he succeeds for a while, but he has no status with the navy, and has no pay and no benefits. Doug, suspicious and cynical at first, bonds with Baggs, who devotes his free time to the kid and even gets his teeth fixed at the naval base by an unqualified dental assistant. Maggie is pregnant by someone she met before Baggs; she gives birth prematurely, and the baby dies soon after birth. Distraught, Maggie needs to get out and distract herself, and returns to her former lifestyle. Finally, the Navy locates Baggs records, and he is re-assigned. When he goes to inform Maggie, he finds she has abandoned Doug and left a note for Baggs telling him that he can keep Doug, and that she is going back to New Orleans (where she came from). In a subplot, Baggs was searching for a sailor named Forshay, who it turns out was in charge of training recruits and had his own tough approach to new recruits including Baggs. After a brief fight, the two become friends based on their shared love of their navy careers that override everything else in their lives. Forshay was demoted, and is being discharged over his mistreatment of recruits, one of whom who had political connections. Forshay loses his pension, and Baggs finds him doing a menial job as a barker at a strip show. In order to stay with Doug, Baggs gets the veteran ex-sailor Forshay (Eli Wallach) to change places with him and ship out under his name. Baggs and Doug then head for New Orleans to look for Maggie.
Cinderella Liberty
1973