As an unspecified global catastrophe looms, an underground city, Ember, is constructed to shelter a large group of survivors. In addition, a small metal box intended for a future generation of Emberites is timed to open after 200 years. This box is entrusted to the Mayor of the City of Ember, and each mayor passes it on to his or her successor. Over time, however, the significance of the box is forgotten, and the succession is broken when the seventh mayor suddenly dies. The box opens by itself at the allotted time, but this goes unnoticed. Several decades later, Embers generator begins to fail, while food, medicine, and other necessities are in dangerously short supply. At a rite of passage for all graduating students of Ember City School, Mayor Cole stands before the students as they choose their adult occupations by lottery. Doon Harrow, the son of inventor and repairman Loris Harrow, is assigned "Messenger", while his classmate Lina Mayfleet is assigned "Pipeworks Laborer" and apprenticed to elderly technician Sul. Shortly afterwards, the two secretly exchange assignments. At home, Lina (a descendant of the seventh mayor) finds the opened box and enlists Doons help to decipher its contents. Gradually, they learn that it contains a set of instructions and directions for an exit from the city. Later, they also discover that Mayor Cole has been hoarding canned food in a secret vault for his own benefit while the people go hungry. After Lina attempts to report this, the mayor captures her and tries to steal the metal box, but she escapes during a blackout. Now fugitives from the mayors police, Lina and Doon, accompanied by Linas little sister, Poppy, use the instructions and assistance from Sul to flee the city via a subterranean river. Meanwhile, the Mayor turns against his accomplice, Looper, and locks himself in his vault, only to be devoured by a gigantic star-nosed mole (which Lina and Doon encountered earlier). Lina, Doon, and Poppy eventually reach the Earths surface, where, for the first time in their lives, they witness a sunrise. The movie ends as Lina and Doon tie a message to a rock and drop it from far above it into the city − where it is found by Loris.
City of Ember
2008