In Kansas City, 1933, near the end of Prohibition, a police lieutenant known by his last name, Speer (Eastwood), is acquainted with a former cop turned private eye named Mike Murphy (Reynolds). Speer and Murphy were once good friends, which changed after Murphy left the force. On a rainy night, Speer comes to a diner for coffee. Two goons arrive, looking for Murphy in order to repossess his car. They pounce the minute Murphy arrives, starting a fistfight. Speer, no fan of Murphys, ignores the fight until a goon causes him to spill his coffee. Both goons are thrown through the front door. Murphy sarcastically thanks Speer for saving his life. The two rivals have eyes for Murphys secretary Addy (Jane Alexander). She loves both and proves it when, after tenderly kissing Murphy goodbye, goes on a date with Speer. Murphy has a new romantic interest, a rich socialite named Caroline Howley (Madeline Kahn), but finds himself unable to commit. Speer and Addy go to a boxing match at which the mob boss Leon Coll (Tony Lo Bianco) is present. Murphys partner Diehl Swift (Richard Roundtree) is also there, and seems to be in cahoots with Pitt and his gang. Swift is in possession of an empty briefcase, whose contents are supposed to be the secret accounting records of gang boss Leon Colls operations. The ledgers are the target of both Pitts and Colls gangs. Coll’s financial records are actually in the possession of Coll’s bookeeper, who met and colluded with Swift earlier at the Club where Ginny sings. Swift leaves the boxing ring, tailed by Speer and Addy, and is confronted by Primo Pitt (Rip Torn) and Pitts thugs at his apartment with Ginny Lee (Irene Cara) who is taken hostage. Ginny Lee manages to escape but Swift is shot and killed during a struggle with Pitt. A thug opens the briefcase but theres nothing inside. He picks up Swifts body and throws it out the window, where it lands on the roof of Speers parked car (which is occupied by the horrified Addy, who waits after Speer goes to investigate in the apartment). Murphy vows revenge on Pitt for killing his partner. He asks Speer for assistance and they form a reluctant alliance. After meeting with Murphy at a movie, Ginny is confronted by Pitts thugs outside the theater. As she tries to escape, she is hit by a car and seriously injured. After Murphy shows Addy the “laundry” which contains the missing financial records, two goons blow bullet holes through the door. Then a huge gun fight breaks out on the street below. Murphy hides and the rival thugs battle it out until one puts a round through Speers car windshield. Speer pulls out a 12 gauge shotgun and finishes the fight, vanquishing the bad guys. Murphy and Speer vow to avenge Ginny and also to rescue Caroline, who has been kidnapped by Pitts gang to force Murphy to hand over the missing records. A final showdown with Pitt and his gang occurs in a warehouse (where Speer continuously and humorously keeps pulling out weapons larger than Murphys). In a high class bordello Speer and (Murphy dressed up in costume) rescue Caroline. Whats left of Pitts gang is hauled off by police, Coll shows up holding Addy at gunpoint and demanding his records. Murphy, with Speer’s okay, hands over the briefcase in exchange for Addy, but the case is booby-trapped. Colls car is blown up with Coll in it. In the end, the rivals have become friends again, at least until a casual remark leads to another all-out fight in a nightclub and ends with Speer and Murphy stepping outside and bickering, face to face.
City Heat
1984