A U.S. Coast Guard patrol boat stops a suspicious yacht, discovering that an American businessman and his family have been murdered. The murdered man is a close friend of the President. President Bennett learns that the man was murdered because of his ties to a drug cartel, having skimmed over $650 million from it. The President tells James Cutter, his National Security Advisor, that Colombian drug cartels represent a "clear and present danger" to the U.S., indirectly giving him unofficial permission to kill the men responsible for his friends murder. When Vice Admiral Jim Greer is stricken with terminal cancer, Jack Ryan is appointed Deputy Director for Intelligence and is asked to go before Congress to request increased funding for ongoing CIA operations in Colombia. Seeking to keep Ryan out of the loop, Cutter turns to the CIAs Deputy Director for Operations Bob Ritter, who secures a document giving him permission to act as he sees fit to take down the cartel. Ritter assembles a black operations team with the help of John Clark. The team inserts itself into Colombia, with Clark running the logistics and Captain Ricardo Ramirez leading a ground force in search-and-destroy missions against various drug cartels. The head of one of the drug gangs, Ernesto Escobedo, is enraged at having lost over $650 million as a result of the freezing of assets, and has his intelligence officer, Félix Cortez, try to retrieve the funds. Through a contact, Cortez discovers FBI Director Emil Jacobs is visiting Colombia to negotiate with Colombias attorney general concerning the frozen money. Cortez has Jacobs ambushed and killed, engineering it so that suspicion will fall on Escobedo. Cortez brokers a deal with Cutter. Cortez will assassinate Escobedo and take over the cartel, then reduce drug shipments to the U.S. and allow American law enforcement to arrest some of his workers at regular intervals to make it appear as if the U.S. is winning the drug war. In exchange, Cutter will shut down all operations in Colombia and allow Cortez to subdue Clarks soldiers. Cutter agrees and orders Ritter to get rid of all evidence of their operations and cut off the troops in Colombia from all support. Ryan is told about the meeting between Cutter and Cortez. He hacks Ritters computer and discovers the conspiracy unfolding in Colombia. The black-ops team is ambushed in Colombia by Cortezs men. Ryan arrives and finds Clark, offering his assistance. They fly to search for the black-ops team and find the squads sniper, Chavez, who tells them that Ramirez and a squadmate have been captured and the rest have been killed. Ryan visits Escobedos mansion and tells him what Cortez has been doing. Enraged, Escobedo accuses Cortez of treachery. One of Cortezs men kills Escobedo and his henchmen, but is shot by Chávez. Ryan, Clark and Chávez rescue the prisoners, kill Cortez, and escape. Ryan confronts the President and tells him he intends to inform the Congressional Oversight Committee about the conspiracy despite the damage it could do to his career. He walks out of the Oval Office, as he walks out Cutter wants to speak with him, but Ryan ignores him, he then begins his testimony to Congress.
Clear and Present Danger (film)
1994