In 1954, six strangers are invited to a dinner party at Hill House, a secluded New England mansion. They are met by the butler, Wadsworth, who gives each of them a pseudonym, with none of them knowing or being addressed by their real names. The guests – Colonel Mustard, Mrs. White, Mrs. Peacock, Mr. Green, Professor Plum, and Miss Scarlet – are served by Wadsworth and the maid, Yvette. During dinner, a seventh guest, Mr. Boddy, arrives. Afterwards, Wadsworth reveals the real reason they are there: Mr. Boddy has been blackmailing the other guests for some time now, and they are here to confront him and turn him over to the police (Wadsworth is also seeking justice for his wife, who committed suicide after also being blackmailed by Mr. Boddy). Mr. Boddy however reminds them that if he is arrested, their guilty secrets for which he has been blackmailing them will be exposed. He then gives each of the other guests a different weapon as a gift (a candlestick, a dagger, a lead pipe, a revolver, a rope, and a wrench), suggesting that one of them kill Wadsworth instead to avoid exposure and humiliation. When he turns out the lights, a gunshot rings out, and when the lights are turned back on, they find Mr. Boddy apparently dead with no visible trace as to how. Later, the cook Mrs. Ho is found dead, stabbed with the dagger, and Mr. Boddys body disappears, only to be rediscovered dead again but with new injuries from the candlestick. Shortly thereafter, a stranded motorist arrives and is locked in the lounge. Colonel Mustard proposes they split into pairs and search the house to make sure no one else is there. While they are searching, the motorist is killed with the wrench. Later, a police officer investigating the motorists abandoned car arrives, after which the guests resume their search of the mansion. The electricity is then turned off. Yvette, the cop, and a singing telegram girl are subsequently murdered with the rope, lead pipe, and revolver respectively. Wadsworth and the others regroup after he turns the electricity back on, and he reveals he knows who the murderer is. He proceeds to recreate the events of the night so far so to explain how the murders occurred, and he reveals that the other five people who died with Mr. Boddy were his accomplices, who gave him vital information about the different guests. After an evangelist interrupts them, Wadsworth continues and shuts off the electricity again. In the theatrical showing, at this point audiences would then be shown one of the three following endings after Wadsworth brings the lights back up. In the home media, all three endings were included, with "Ending A" and "B" identified as possible endings but "Ending C" being how the events really occurred.
Clue (film)
1985