An armed gunman causes a hostage situation at a Los Angeles supermarket. When negotiations between him and law enforcement fail, the LAPD summons Lieutenant Marion Cobretti (Stallone), a member of the agencys elite division known as the "Zombie Squad". Cobretti, known by the codename "Cobra", infiltrates the store, locates, and negotiates with him. During the negotiation, the gunman speaks of the unknown organization known as "The New World", a supremacist group of social darwinist radicals that despise modern society and believe in killing the weak, leaving only the strongest and smartest to rule the world. Cobretti then kills the gunman by throwing a knife at his abdomen and firing shots at him. As the hostages and bodies are removed from the store, Cobretti is admonished by Detective Monte (Robinson) for his seeming disregard for police procedures and protocols. Harassed by reporters, Cobretti admonishes them for failing to prioritize the safety of potential victims. Little does everyone realize at the time is that the supermarket hostage crisis is only one of a string of recent and seemingly unconnected acts of violence and murder that have broken loose in Los Angeles, perpetrated by the same supremacist group the supermarket gunman mentioned. Model and businesswoman Ingrid Knudsen (Nielsen) later becomes the organizations main target after witnessing their members, including the organizations leader, only identified as "The Night Slasher" (Thompson), going on a spree killing. She is placed under the protective custody of Cobretti and his partner, Sergeant Tony Gonzales (Santoni) after a failed attempt on her by the organization. Several more failed attempts are made on their lives by various people connected to the Order. Cobretti theorizes that there is an entire army of killers operating with the same modus operandi rather than a lone serial killer with some associates, but his suggestion is rebuffed by his superiors. However, the LAPD agrees with Cobretti that it will be safest if he and Knudsen relocate from the city. Cobretti becomes romantically involved with Ingrid shortly after venturing out into the countryside, but Nancy Stalk (Garlington), the organizations second-in-command and right-hand person disguised as a police officer escorting the Cobretti party, reveals the location of their whereabouts. Despite Cobrettis suspicions and mistrust of Nancy, he does nothing and the party spends the night in a motel. The organization moves in at dawn and besieges the small town. With barely enough time to react, the attackers storm Cobretti and Ingrids motel, wounding Gonzales in the process. Killing several members but with more swarming into the town, Cobretti and Ingrid escape in a pickup truck. When the truck is severely damaged from the chase, the duo cut through a grapefruit plantation to escape into a nearby factory. Cobretti has defeated most of the organization by this point, with the few remaining members following them into the building. After eliminating every member except for the Night Slasher himself, Cobretti engages in a vicious melee combat with him inside the steel mill, ending with the Night Slasher being impaled in the back by a large roaming hook, then burned alive. In the aftermath, Cobrettis department arrives and begins clean-up of the town, giving medical aid to Gonzales. Detective Monte appears apologetic but confronts Cobretti again about his lack of regard to police protocols, offering to discuss the issue over a long dinner. Cobretti punches Monte instead, and the film ends with Cobretti and Ingrid riding away on one of the motorcycles left by the organization.
Cobra (1986 film)
1986