In Santa Cecilia, Mexico, Imelda Rivera was the wife of a musician, who left her and their 3-year-old daughter Coco, to pursue a career in music. When he never returns, Imelda banishes music from her life and that of her family and opens a shoemaking family business. Ninety-six years later, her great-great-grandson, 12-year-old Miguel, now lives with Coco and their family. He secretly dreams of becoming a musician like Ernesto de la Cruz, a popular actor and singer of Cocos generation. One day, Miguel inadvertently damages the picture frame holding a photo of Coco with her parents at the center of the family ofrenda and removes the photograph, discovering that his great-great-grandfather (whose face had been torn out) was holding Ernestos famous guitar. Concluding that Ernesto is his great-great-grandfather, Miguel leaves to enter a talent show for the Day of the Dead despite the objections of his grandmother Elena. He enters Ernestos mausoleum and takes his guitar to use in the show, but becomes invisible to everyone in the village plaza. However, he can interact with his Xoloitzcuintli dog Dante and his skeletal dead relatives who are visiting from the Land of the Dead for the holiday. Taking him there, they realize that Imelda cannot visit, as Miguel removed her photo from the ofrenda. Discovering that he is cursed for stealing from the dead, Miguel must return to the Land of the Living before sunrise or he will become one of the dead; to do so, he must receive a blessing from a member of his family using an Aztec marigold petal that can undo the curse placed upon him when he stole Ernestos guitar. Imelda offers Miguel a blessing but on the condition that he abandon his musical pursuits when he returns to the Land of the Living; Miguel refuses and attempts to seek Ernestos blessing. Miguel encounters Héctor, a down-on-his-luck skeleton who once played music with Ernesto and offers to help Miguel reach him. In return, Héctor asks Miguel to take his photo back to the Land of the Living so he can visit his daughter before she forgets him and he disappears completely. Upon learning he has other relatives, however, Héctor attempts to return Miguel to them, but Miguel escapes and infiltrates Ernestos mansion, learning along the way that an old friendship between the two deteriorated before Héctors death. Ernesto welcomes Miguel as his descendant, but Héctor confronts them, imploring Miguel to take his photo to the Land of the Living. After an argument between Ernesto and Héctor, Miguel soon realizes that Ernesto murdered Héctor using a poisoned drink and stole the songs Héctor had written, passing them off as his own to become famous. To maintain his legacy, Ernesto steals the photo and has Miguel and Héctor thrown into a cenote pit. Miguel realizes that Héctor is his actual great-great-grandfather and that Coco is Héctors daughter, the only living person who still remembers him. With the help of Dante – who turns into an alebrije – the dead Riveras find and rescue the duo. Miguel reveals that Héctors decision to return home to Imelda and Coco resulted in his death, and Imelda and Héctor gradually reconcile. They infiltrate Ernestos sunrise concert to retrieve Héctors photo from Ernesto and his crimes are revealed to everyone. Ernesto is crushed by a falling church bell as in his previous life, but Héctors photo falls into the water and disappears. As the sun rises, Héctor is in danger of being forgotten by Coco and disappearing. Imelda and Héctor bless Miguel with no conditions attached so he can return to the Land of the Living, where he plays "Remember Me", a song Héctor wrote for her during her childhood. The song revitalizes her memory of Héctor, and she gives Miguel the torn-out piece of the photo from the ofrenda, which shows Héctors face, and tells her family stories about her father, thus keeping the memory of him alive. Elena reconciles with Miguel, accepting music back into the family. One year later, Miguel proudly presents the family ofrenda – including the restored photo of Héctor and Imelda – to his new baby sister Socorro as Elena adds a photo of the now-deceased Coco. Letters kept by Coco contain evidence that Ernesto stole Héctors songs. As a result, Ernestos legacy is destroyed, and the community honors Héctor instead. In the Land of the Dead, Héctor and Imelda join Coco for a visit to the living Riveras as Miguel sings and plays for his dead and living relatives.
Coco (2017 film)
2017