A nurse, known only as "Coffy" throughout the entirety of the film, seeks revenge for her younger sisters drug-related death and the widespread violence that exists in her city. Under the guise of an attractive prostitute willing to do anything for a drug fix, she lures a drug pusher and a mob boss to their residences, killing them. After the killings, Coffy returns to her job at a local hospital operating room. After her shift, Coffy’s police friend Carter offers to drive her home. Carter is a straight-shooting officer who is not willing to bend the law for the mob or thugs who have been bribing many officers at his precinct. Coffy doesnt believe his strong moral resolve until two hooded men break into Carters house while shes visiting him and beat Carter severely, temporarily crippling him. This enrages Coffy, giving her further provocation to continue her work as a vigilante, killing those responsible for harming Carter and her sister. Coffys boyfriend, Howard Brunswick, is a city councilman. Coffy admires Brunswick for his contributions to the community. She is very happy when he announces his plan to run for Congress, and his purchase of a night club. Coffys next targets are a pimp named King George, one of the largest suppliers of prostitutes and illegal drugs in the city, and Mafia boss Arturo Vittroni, a criminal associate of Georges. Coffy questions and abuses a former patient of hers who was a known drug user to gain insight into the type of woman King George likes and where he keeps his stash of drugs. Coffy shows no remorse for the drug-addled woman. Coffy is on a mission of revenge and no one will stand in her way. With the information she gets from the woman, Coffy tracks down George and poses as a Jamaican woman looking to trick for him. George is immediately interested in her exotic nature and hires her. One of the prostitutes becomes jealous when she sees King George taking an interest in Coffy. Later that day, Coffy and the other prostitutes get into a massive brawl. Coffy wins out, which attracts mob boss Vittroni who demands that he must have her that night. Coffy plans to murder Vitroni and just when she is about to shoot, she is overtaken by his men. She lies and tells Vittroni that King George ordered her to kill him, which makes Vitroni order George to be murdered. Vittronis men kill George by tying him by the neck from their car, which they drive through an open field. Coffy then discovers her clean-cut boyfriend is actually corrupt when shes shown to him at a meeting of the mob and several police officials. He denies knowing her other than as a prostitute and Coffy is sent to her death. Coffy uses her sexuality to seduce her would-be killers. They try injecting her with drugs to sedate her, but she had switched these out for sugar earlier. Faking a high, she kills her unsuspecting hitmen with a pointed metal wire she fashioned herself and hid in her hair. Running to avoid capture, Coffy carjacks a vehicle to escape. Coffy drives to Vittronis house, murders him, and then goes to Brunswicks to do the same. He pleads for forgiveness and just as she is about to accept, a naked white woman comes out of the bedroom. At this, Coffy shoots Brunswick in the groin. The film then closes with Coffy walking along the beach satisfied with having avenged her sister and Carter. Its unclear whether Coffy is held accountable for her crimes, including killing several police officers and shooting a politician.
Coffy
1973