Max Durocher (Jamie Foxx), a meticulous Los Angeles cab driver, is working to earn enough to start his own limousine business. One of the evenings fares is U.S. Justice Department prosecutor Annie Farrell (Jada Pinkett Smith). On the drive to her office, they strike up a conversation and Annie gives Max her business card. Maxs next fare is Vincent (Tom Cruise). Impressed by Maxs skill at navigating L.A., Vincent offers Max $600 to drive him for the night, against regulations, which Max reluctantly accepts. As Max waits at the first stop, a corpse falls onto his car. Vincent reveals himself as a hitman, and the body is one of his five targets. He forces Max to hide the body in the trunk and continue driving. At the second stop, Vincent restrains Max to the steering wheel with cable tie. Max attracts the attention of a group of young men and asks them for help, but two of them rob him and take Vincents briefcase. Vincent returns and kills both men with his pistol. Vincent then offers to buy Max a drink at a jazz club he likes. At the club, Vincent engages the owner Daniel (Barry Shabaka Henley) in conversation, then unexpectedly kills him in front of Max. Max asks Vincent to let him go, but Vincent threatens to kill him if he refuses to obey. Maxs boss, who has been hectoring him over the radio, informs Max that his mother Ida (Irma P. Hall) is trying to reach him. Learning of Maxs nightly visits to his hospitalized mother, Vincent insists that Max does not break his routine. At the hospital, Ida proudly tells Vincent that Max has his own limousine company, revealing that Max has been lying to her. Overwhelmed, Max leaves, taking Vincents briefcase containing files on his targets, and tosses it onto a freeway. Vincent forces Max to meet drug lord Felix Reyes-Torrena (Javier Bardem) to obtain information on his last two marks, threatening to murder Ida otherwise. Max, posing as Vincent, successfully acquires the information, but Felix orders his men to kill "Vincent" if he does not complete the job. Max heads with Vincent to the next target, Peter Lim, who is at a nightclub. Meanwhile, Narcotics Detective Ray Fanning (Mark Ruffalo) uncovers the connection between the three victims and reports his finding to FBI Special Agent Frank Pedrosa (Bruce McGill). Pedrosa identifies the victims as witnesses in a federal grand jury indicting Felix the following day. Pedrosa assembles a force to secure Lim. At the nightclub Vincent manages to kill all of Felixs hitmen, Lims bodyguards and Lim himself, then leaves the club. Fanning rescues Max and smuggles him outside, but is killed by Vincent, who beckons Max back into the cab. Following their getaway, the two trade insulting psychological summaries of each others life. Vincent mocks Max for his lack of ambition, while Max berates Vincent for his inability to understand other people. Aware that Vincent intends to kill him, Max deliberately crashes the cab, but both survive and Vincent escapes. A police officer arrives to help, but sees the corpse in the trunk and tries to apprehend Max. During the arrest, Max sees Vincents open laptop, which reveals that Annie is his final target. He overpowers the police officer, pockets his gun, and rushes toward Annies office building. Max calls Annie to warn her of Vincents approach. She is initially incredulous, until Max reveals details about the witnesses Vincent has already killed, and Max urges her to call 911. Vincent is already in the building, and Max enters in pursuit; Vincent uses a fire axe to cut the power and telephone lines on the floor Annie is on. A tense hunt in the dark ensues. Vincent finally finds Annie, aims at her, but is shot and wounded by Max, who escapes with Annie on foot. Vincent pursues the pair onto a metro rail train. Finally cornered at one end of the train, Max decides to make a final stand, in which he and Vincent engage in a shootout. In the final moments of their confrontation, the subway car momentarily goes dark as they exchange gunfire, the pitch darkness rendering Vincents advantage of experience and marksmanship useless. Vincent, fatally wounded, slumps into a seat as Max and Annie look on. He repeats a remark that he had previously made about a man dying unnoticed on a Metro train, before dying himself. Max and Annie get off at the next station, in the dawn of a new day.
Collateral (film)
2004