In the fictional African nation of Zamunda, crown prince Akeem lives a pampered life, but he wishes to do more for himself. When his parents, King Jaffe and Queen Aeoleon, present him with an arranged bride-to-be, Akeem takes action. Seeking an independent woman who loves him for himself, not his social status, Akeem and his best friend/personal aide, Semmi, travel to the New York City borough of Queens and rent a squalid tenement in the neighborhood of Long Island City under the guise of poor foreign students. Beginning their search for Akeems bride, they end up invited by some locals to a rally that is raising money for the inner city. During the rally, Akeem encounters Lisa McDowell, who possesses all the qualities he is looking for, and upon his insistence he and Semmi get entry-level jobs working at the local fast food restaurant called McDowells — an obvious ripoff of McDonalds — owned by widower Cleo McDowell, Lisas father. Akeems attempts to win Lisas love are complicated by Lisas lazy and obnoxious boyfriend, Darryl Jenks (Eriq La Salle), whose father owns Soul Glo (a Jheri curl–like hairstyling aid). After Darryl announces their engagement — without Lisas consent — to their families, she starts dating Akeem, who claims that he comes from a family of poor goat herders. Meanwhile, although Akeem thrives on hard work and learning how commoners live, Semmi is not comfortable with living in such meager conditions. After a dinner date with Lisa is thwarted when Semmi furnishes their apartment with a jacuzzi and other luxuries, Akeem confiscates his money and donates it to two homeless men. Semmi wires a telegraph to King Jaffe for more money, prompting Akeems parents to travel to Queens and expose his identity as a prince. Mr. McDowell, initially disapproving of Akeem as he did not want to see his daughter with a poor man, is ecstatic that he is actually an extremely wealthy prince. Lisa, however, becomes angry and confused that Akeem lied to her about his identity. Akeem explains that he wanted her to love him for who, not what he is, even offering to renounce his throne; but Lisa, still hurt and angry, refuses to marry him. Despondent, Akeem resigns himself to the arranged marriage, but as they leave, King Jaffe is reprimanded by Queen Aeoleon for clinging to out-dated traditions instead of thinking of his sons happiness. At the wedding procession, a still-heartbroken Akeem waits at the altar as his veiled bride-to-be makes her way down the aisle, but when Akeem lifts the veil to kiss her, he finds Lisa in the wedding gown. Following the ceremony, they ride happily in a carriage to the cheers of Zamundans. Witnessing such splendor, Lisa is both surprised and touched by the fact that Akeem would have given it up just for her. Akeem offers again to abdicate if she doesnt want this life, but Lisa playfully declines.
Coming to America
1988