Sandra, manager of a ChickWich fast food restaurant, receives a call from someone identifying himself as Officer Daniels. He claims to be in contact with the regional manager about a customer whose purse was allegedly robbed by an employee that day. Daniels claims that he is searching the suspects residence, but will remain on the phone while Sandra detains the employee until the police arrive. Sandra identifies Becky as the suspect based on the description; Daniels confirms the name. Sandra brings Becky to the restaurant office with another employee, Marti. She denies the theft. At Daniels behest, Sandra searches Beckys pockets and purse and finds nothing. Telling her that the alternative is to have Becky go to jail, Daniels has her strip-search Becky. Daniels tells Sandra that he and other officers are searching Beckys home on suspicion that her brother is involved in drugs, and that Becky may be involved. He has Sandra put Beckys clothes into a bag and take it to her car for inspection by the police. Sandra insists she resume managing the restaurant as it is busy. After Daniels stipulates that a male employee watch Becky for "security reasons", another employee, Kevin, is brought in, but questions Daniels instructions and leaves. Sandras fiancé Van takes over; under pressure from Daniels over the beers he drank before driving to the restaurant, he has Becky perform nude jumping jacks to "shake loose" any contraband concealed in her body. After Becky protests, Daniels has Van spank her. Eventually, Becky is coerced into performing oral sex on Van. Van leaves with guilt and is replaced by the custodian, Harold, who is outraged by Daniels instructions. Harold tells Sandra about Daniels orders; she calls the regional manager, who tells her he has no idea about any investigation. The police discover that a similar incident happened elsewhere. Daniels is identified by closed circuit recordings and arrested; he is a family man working as a telemarketer. Becky meets an attorney to discuss options for suing Sandra. Sandra, now unemployed and no longer seeing Van, tells a journalist she is a blameless victim.
Compliance (film)
2012