In the year 1991, following a pandemic from a spaceborne disease that wiped out all cats and dogs, the American government has become a series of police states that took apes as pets before establishing a culture based on ape slave labor. These events were foretold a few years earlier as testimony by Cornelius, prior to him and his wife Zira being killed. While it appeared their child was also killed, their son Milo evaded death and was secretly raised by the circus owner Armando (Ricardo Montalbán) as a young horseback rider. Armando brings a fully grown Milo to New York to distribute flyers for the circuss arrival, explaining to the curious ape the events that led to their new reality while advising him not to speak in fear for his life. Seeing apes performing various menial tasks and shocked at the harsh discipline inflicted on disobedient apes, Milo shouts out "Lousy human bastards!" after seeing an ape messenger being beaten and drugged. Though Armando takes responsibility for the exclamation while defusing the situation, Milo runs off in the commotion. Finding Milo hiding in a stairway, Armando tells the ape that he will turn himself to the authorities and bluff his way out while instructing Milo to hide among a group of arriving apes for safety. Milo follows Armandos instruction and hides in a cage of orangutans, finding himself being trained for slavery through violent conditioning. Milo is then sold at auction to Governor Breck (Don Murray), allowed by his owner to name himself by randomly pointing to a word in a book handed to him. The chimpanzees finger rests upon the name "Caesar", feigning coincidence. Caesar is then put to work by Brecks chief aide MacDonald (Hari Rhodes) whose African American heritage allows him to sympathize with the apes to the thinly veiled disgust of his boss. Meanwhile, Armando is being interrogated by Inspector Kolp (Severn Darden), who suspects his "circus ape" is the child of the two talking apes from the future. Kolps assistant puts Armando under a machine, "The Authenticator", that psychologically forces people to be truthful. After admitting he had heard the name Cornelius before, Armando realizes he cannot fight the machine and jumps through a window to his death after a brief struggle with a guard. When Caesar learns of his foster fathers death, he loses faith in human kindness and begins secretly teaching the apes combat while having them gather weapons. By that time, through Kolps investigation that the vessel which supposedly delivered Caesar is from a region with no native chimpanzees, Breck learns that Caesar is the ape they are hunting. Caesar reveals himself to MacDonald after he covered for the ape twice when called by Breck on Caesars whereabouts. While MacDonald understands Caesars intent to depose Breck, he expresses his doubts about the revolutions effectiveness along with Caesar being dismissive of all humans. Caesar is later captured by Brecks men and is electrically tortured into speaking. Hearing him speak, Breck orders Caesars immediate death. Caesar survives his execution because MacDonald secretly lowers the machines electrical output well below lethal levels. Once Breck leaves, Caesar kills his torturer and escapes. Caesar begins his revolution by first taking over Ape Management to build his numbers, proceeding to the command center with the apes killing most of the riot police that attempt to stop them while setting the city on fire. After bursting into Brecks command post and killing most of the personnel, Caesar has Breck marched out to be executed. MacDonald attempts to plea Caesar not to succumb to brutality and be merciful to the former masters. Caesar ignores him and in a rage declares:  Where there is fire, there is smoke. And in that smoke, from this day forward, my people will crouch, and conspire, and plot, and plan for the inevitable day of Mans downfall. The day when he finally and self-destructively turns his weapons against his own kind. The day of the writing in the sky, when your cities lie buried under radioactive rubble! When the sea is a dead sea, and the land is a wasteland out of which I will lead my people from their captivity! And we shall build our own cities, in which there will be no place for humans except to serve our ends! And we shall found our own armies, our own religion, our own dynasty! And that day is upon you NOW!  As the apes raise their rifles to beat Breck to death, Caesars love interest Lisa (Natalie Trundy) voices her objection, "NO!" She is the first ape to speak other than Caesar. Caesar reconsiders and orders the apes to lower their weapons, saying:  But now... now we will put away our hatred. Now we will put down our weapons. We have passed through the night of the fires, and those who were our masters are now our servants. And we, who are not human, can afford to be humane. Destiny is the will of God, and if it is Mans destiny to be dominated, it is Gods will that he be dominated with compassion, and understanding. So, cast out your vengeance. Tonight, we have seen the birth of the Planet of the Apes!
Conquest of the Planet of the Apes
1972