Composer Richard Parker and his wife Priscilla live an ordinary suburban life until they meet their new neighbors Eddy and Kay Otis. The two couples became friends. Kays talent for blues singing gets Richards attention, and Eddy is attracted to Priscilla. It becomes clear that Eddy is a scam artist who fakes a neck injury after an auto accident for the insurance proceeds, the majority of which he offers to the Parkers as a gift. Eddy chastises Richard for not living dangerously, and suggests they swap mates for an evening. The plot takes a nasty turn when Richard does sleep with Kay (supposedly without her realizing that he is not her husband) and Kay turns up bludgeoned to death with a baseball bat the next morning. Later, it is revealed that Eddy spent the night elsewhere in order to establish an airtight alibi. Richards fingerprints are on the bat (the two couples having played a friendly game of softball earlier that day) and his semen is found in her body, so he is charged with the crime. Insult is added to injury as Priscilla disowns and divorces Richard due to his infidelity. Eddy soon becomes Priscillas lover and a substitute father to Richards child. A distraught Richard finally finds a ray of hope when he discovers that Kay is alive, recognizing her voice singing in a radio talent show. With the help of a private investigator hired by the insurance company from which Eddy is attempting to collect a $1.5 million indemnity claim, Richard tracks her down and learns the truth of how he was betrayed. Kay is guilt-ridden over her part in it, but terrified at Eddys threat to implicate her if she testifies. Eddy, anticipating what Richard intends to do next, murders Kay and slips away. Implicated in a second murder, Richard must now flee the scene as police sirens approach. Priscilla discovers a forgotten plane ticket Eddy used on the night of the second murder. Now realizing Eddys guilt, she worries over what to do about it. Richard performs a commando-style raid on Eddys house, but Eddy, anticipating this move as well, reveals to Priscilla his plan to murder her and shoot Richard as a homicidal intruder. Working together, Richard and Priscilla eventually kill Eddy, using the original murder weapon, the baseball bat. Richard and Priscilla are later seen moving into a very secluded house with no neighbors visible for miles.
Consenting Adults (1992 film)
1992