Cookie Voltecki (Emily Lloyd) jumps the turnstiles with her friend and is caught by transit security who fine her and bring her to court. There she is defended from her charges by a lawyer she doesnt know and put in a car where she is taken to her estranged father, Dino Capisco (Peter Falk), who is about to finish a thirteen-year prison sentence. To straighten Cookie out he sends her to work with an old associate of his named Carmine (Michael V. Gazzo). Dino is successfully paroled and goes home with his wife, but shortly after goes to visit Cookies mother Lenore Voltecki (Dianne Wiest), Dinos longtime mistress. Cookie is disgusted with the way the married Dino treats her mother and Dino grows frustrated with Cookie, but at Lenores urging the two go to a Christmas party at Carmines. While there Cookie and Dino fight and leave early. Aware that he is being followed by the feds, who want to put him back in prison, Dino has Cookie shake their security detail. When pictures of them end up in newspapers Dino tells his wife that Cookie is his driver and begins using her as such. Dino reveals to Cookie he is actually mad with Carmine, who sold out his shares in a business they had together when Dino was in prison and now refuses to give him the money from the sale. To get revenge Dino calls the union on Carmines sweatshop and also has some of his men ransack trucks containing Carmines merchandise. In retaliation some of Carmines men shoot at Dinos car while Cookie is driving it and later plant a bomb in Dinos car, though no one is harmed. A worried Cookie reaches out to the FBI, offering to give up her fathers associates as long as he is put in witness protection. Dino vetoes the idea since he thinks Carmines men will never stop hunting him down, but Cookie suggests they fake his death so that Carmine wont bother looking for him. Dino and Cookie hatch a plot where they leak out that Dino has millions and is planning to retire to Italy. Carmine decides to steal the money and then kill Dino but the plan goes awry when the money is stolen. Carmine then goes to confront Dino and is blown up in his car. The district attorney is horrified that he accidentally killed Carmine but Cookie tells him he still needs to honor his agreement to put Dino in witness protection lest she divulge that he murdered someone. Dino and Lenore leave to go to witness protection and Cookie hugs her father and takes a picture of the three of them as a family. Cookie attends Dinos funeral while elsewhere Dino and Lenore marry and get ready to spend their lives together with their new identities.
Cookie (film)
1989