Set in 1964 Chicago, Preach, an aspiring playwright and Cochise, All-city basketball champion are best friends who are both celebrating the final weeks of their senior year with their classmates at Edwin G. Cooley Vocational High School on Chicagos Near-North Side. While sitting in class, Cochise sleeps while Preach comes up with the idea that Pooter, another classmate and friend would fake a nosebleed so they can get out of class. As Preach and Pooter leaves with the teachers permission, Cochise; whos now awake, sneaks out the classrooms back door. After getting out of class, The trio meet up with another classmate whos sitting outside the school. The group then hitch a ride from school by hanging on the back of a city bus. The group end up at Lincoln Park Zoo where they spend the day stealing snacks from the concession stand and antagonizing animals. After spending a few hours at the zoo, The group head back toward the neighborhood via train. Once back, the group show a few basketball hoops with some locals before Pooter states he needs to return to school before closing to retrieve his books. The group end up at Marthas, a local hangout where they run into another classmate on their way inside, Dorothy who is giving a "Quarter" party at her house later that evening. While inside, Preach is shooting dice with two guys from the neighborhood; Stone and Robert. During the dice game, they encounter one of Preachs classmates, Brenda who Preach shows an immediate interest in. After Preach is chased out of the hangout by the owner for gambling, The group then splits up. Cochise arrives home, where he learns via mail that he received a basketball scholarship to attend Grambling State University. The group meet up and binges on alcohol, celebrating Cochises scholarship before heading off to Dorothys house party. Once at the party, Preach encounters Brenda again; who has no interest in him. While the party is going on, Preach retreats to a bedroom where Brenda is and the two discuss love poems. The party ends abruptly when another classmate named Damon shows up and spots Cochise dancing with his girlfriend, Loretta; which leads to scuffle between the two. Having trashed the house during the scuffle, The group retreat back to Marthas. While standing out front, The group; which consist of Cochise, Preach, Pooter and Tyrone encounter Stone and Robert. The pair ride up in a Cadillac car and convince Cochise and Preach to go for a joyride with them. The group then drive through the neighborhood, Downtown Chicago and Gold Coast area with Stone at the wheel. After talking, Preach convinces Stone to let him drive; which leads to attention from the police due to his bad driving. The police chase leads from downtown into a garage at Navy Pier, in which they get away from them; only to end up hitting a park car with occupants inside. After the accident, The group then flee the vehicle; Preach and Cochise running in one direction and Stone with Robert in another. The next day, The group, Cochise, Preach, Pooter, Tyrone and another classmate then decide to go the movies but are short on cash. Preach and Cochise then approach two prostitutes, pretending to want sexual services; later stating they are actually cops. While searching and threatening to arrest them, One of the women pays $10 to Preach to be let go; while the other one notice that the police badge is a fake. After realizing their cover is blown, the two run off with the money. The group then end up at the movie theater, where they are viewing Mothra vs. Godzilla. With Cochise, Tyrone and Preach being with their girlfriends; Pooter is left venturing around the theater by himself. Upon finding a seat, He bumps into a man who gets confrontational; another man intervenes on Pooter behalf which leads to a brawl between the Disciples and Counts street gangs in the theater. The following day, Preach and Brenda spend a day together which leads to them having sex back at Preachs house. After learning that Cochise and Preach had an inside cash bet on Preach hooking up with her, Brenda leaves the house upset. The following day at school, Cochise and Preach are arrested for being in the stolen car; charging them with Grand Theft Auto. While at the station, The pair are reunited with Stone and Robert who are also being questioned about the stolen car. Mr. Mason, the boys history teacher, persuades the police to release Preach and Cochise because of their clean record, but Stone and Robert remain imprisoned due to their being repeat offenders. Confused as to how they were let off the hook, Preach and Cochise leave the holding area. Thinking that Preach and Cochise placed all the blame on them, Stone and Robert; the vengeful pair immediately hunt for both of them after being released from jail a few days later. While in school, Preach learns that Mr. Mason actually got them out of jail; and stets of to look for Cochise give tell him the information. In his pursuit of looking for Cochise, Preach runs into Cochises cousin Jimmy Lee who takes him to the apartment where his. Once there, Preach finds him with his ex-girlfriend in which Preach becomes angry and leaves. Preach then retreats to Marthas, Spotted by Damon, he walks over to a table where Brenda is sitting and begins to apologize. While talking to Brenda, Preach overhears Damon speaking to Stone and Robert whos just walk into the hangout. As he sends Brenda out of the restaurant, urging her to meet him at the train station in 15 minutes; He tries to sneak toward the back. Preachs presence is then made known by Damon; in which Stone and Robert began taunting and chasing Preach around the restaurant. After spotting the confrontation, The hangouts owner intervene; forcing Stone and Robert out of her place with a meat cleaver while Preach is hiding in a bathroom. Preach tries to sneaks out the side door of the establishment but is spotted by the pair who is waiting for him outside. After evading them, Preach meets up with Brenda; where he learns from her that Cochise went to Marthas in search for him. Stone, Robert and Damon ultimately find Cochise on a side street, corner him, and beat him straight to a bloody pulp, leaving him for dead. Having been notified of the attack on Cochise, Preach frantically searches the streets and finds his best friend’s lifeless body lying face down under an overpass. Using Cochise’s untimely death as motivation, and after the funeral, Preach runs off to pursue his dream of becoming a renowned Hollywood poet and writer – ultimately making both him and his newfound guardian angel proud.
Cooley High
1975