After the end of World War II a former P.O.W., Canadian RCAF flyer Laurence Gerard (Powell), returns to France to discover who ordered the killing of his bride of only 20 days, a member of the French Resistance. His father-in-law Étienne Rougon identifies Vichy collaborator Marcel Jarnac. He supposedly died in 1943, but Rougon has strong doubts. Jarnac was so careful about maintaining his anonymity, and the police have no description of him. But his own associate compiled a dossier on him; Gerard finds a burned fragment of it, and an envelope addressed to Madame Jarnac. From this he manages to track the widow to Buenos Aires, Argentina. When he arrives Gerard is met by Melchior Incza (Walter Slezak), a stranger who appears to know all too much about him. The suspicious Canadian initially rejects Inczas offer of help, but cannot turn down his invitation to a party hosted by Mme Jarnacs associate, wealthy businessman Tomas Camargo (Steven Geray) for the opportunity to mingle with their social set. There he meets Camargos uncle, lawyer Manuel Santana (Morris Carnovsky), and the widow herself (Micheline Cheirel). When Gerard later questions Mme Jarnac in her hotel room, she refuses to co-operate, so he starts openly following her. Santana asks him to desist, but will not say why. Later, Gerard finds a valet, Diego (Jack La Rue), tidying up his hotel room at an odd hour. Eventually, Mme Jarnac agrees to provide him with the information he desires. A note is delivered to Gerard informing him that Jarnac is leaving the country that night under the name of Ernest Dubois, and giving his address; but it is a forgery. Gerard is only stopped from shooting the wrong man in cold blood by the timely intervention of Santana and Diego. Dubois (Edgar Barrier) is actually their associate; it turns out that they are after not only Jarnac but his secret Nazi organisation as well. Mme Jarnac is an innocent woman paid to act as the wife of a man she has never seen. To stir things up, Gerard tricks Incza into believing he has the full dossier on Jarnac. Incza breaks into the hotel safe, but it is not there. Gerard is sent to Camargos room, where Camargos wife (Nina Vale) keeps him busy by trying to seduce him into her life of luxury and easy vice. Gerard kisses her, but rejects her advance; he still loves his wife, although "Her teeth were crooked and she was too thin". He tells the señora he is "bored" and cannot wait any longer for Camargo. Meanwhile, Incza has been searching Gerards room and realises there is no dossier. When the "valet" Diego interrupts, Incza kills him. Gerard returns and is detained as a murder suspect, but a waiter confirms his alibi. Still, Gerard is given 48 hours to leave the country. When Incza tells him that Jarnac will be seeing Camargo at his "old office", Gerard decides to stake out a bar Mme Jarnac recalls was once their meeting place. It is a trap. Gerard is captured, and Jarnac (Luther Adler) finally makes his appearance. While they wait for Incza to arrive with the dossier, Jarnac makes a political speech on how Americas failure to see that their injustice across the world and the resulting poverty of nations (as happened in Germany after World War I) means that there will always be people like him. Incza attempts to betray Jarnac to Camargo, before realising Jarnac is there. Hoping to regain Jarnacs trust, he reveals that there is no dossier. Jarnac kills him. Gerard is to die as well, with Camargo as a witness that the two men shot each other. Camargo objects, but Jarnac threatens him with a paper in his possession. Gerard seizes the distraction to overpower Jarnac. He punches Jarnac over and over until Santana and Dubois arrive. To their disappointment, Jarnac is dead, but Gerard shows them the paper detailing Jarnacs connection to Camargo. As Santana now tells the police, this should be sufficient to expose the entire organisation.
Cornered (1945 film)
1945