The film opens in late 1950s Los Angeles at a quiet pot-luck wake for Annie Singer, who has died and left husband Manny (Ray Liotta) and daughter Molly (Tina Majorino). We meet Mannys mother Eva (Erica Yohn) and father Harry (Don Ameche) and the other characters. As friends and family leave, it is apparent that Manny is in for difficulty. Molly will no longer speak due to her mothers passing, and there is a need for a housekeeper/nanny so that Manny can return to a shaky job writing commercial jingles for his best friend and boss, Sid (Larry Miller). After one nanny washes out, Corrina Washington (Whoopi Goldberg) interviews for the position. She responds well to Corrina and Manny hires her. Very quickly a strong bond is formed between them. Corrina works out a system to "talk" with her without making her speak. Corrina sees the early struggles of life after Annies passing, and Molly slowly begins to interact more with Corrina. Molly also begins to spend time with Corrinas sister and family, who take her to church and welcome her into their home. At an office party, Manny is introduced to Jenny (Wendy Crewson), a perky white divorcee with two sons. Manny is still struggling with losing Annie and is not ready to date. Corrinas sister Jevina encourages her to date a black man, Anthony, but Corrina isnt interested. A frightened Molly returns to school where she is mocked for adding Corrina to her family picture. She runs into Corrinas arms at the end of the day, desperate to go home. That night, Molly awakes from a nightmare, Corrina and Manny run to her side but she is scared and angry. Corrina tells her she is allowed to be mad. Manny admits to her how hurt he is about losing Annie and how much he misses her too. That night Jevina chastises Corrina for pretending to become a part of this family. A terrified Molly begs Corrina to let her stay home from school and she secretly agrees. Corrina spends more time with them and she and Manny slowly discover they are more compatible with each other than anyone else. He confides in her about Annie and she talks about her long gone former husband. They share a love of music and she even assists him on his new jingle. After a successful advertising campaign, he comes home with flowers for Molly as well as Corrina. Their private celebration is interrupted by a visit from Jenny, which Corrina takes as a cue that she is not meant to stay. The next day, a flustered Corrina goes to work where Manny apologizes for Jennys uninvited visit. As they say goodbye, they share a kiss on the cheek, which Mannys nosey neighbor sees. Corrina and Manny begin to fall in love and face prejudice as an interracial couple. Molly asks her grandfather Harry to make sure that Manny marries Corrina. That night, Corrina and Manny talk about their spouses and share a moonlight dance and kiss that is witnessed by Molly. After weeks of not attending school, Corrina thinks its almost time for Molly to go back, but she says shes not yet ready, but Manny finds out that Corrina had been letting her skip school. In a fit of anger, he tells her that she is not Mollys mother and fires her, taking a heartbroken Molly home. Molly becomes withdrawn again, and Manny learns that Harry has died. After the funeral, he goes to visit Corrina at her house to tell her of Harrys passing and to properly apologize. After an unsuccessful talk, she overhears his not-so quiet prayers to God to help him out. She informs him that she quit and he assures her that she was replaced. They embrace and he begins to kiss her. She brings him inside to formally meet her family. The film ends with Molly singing "This Little Light of Mine" in order to cheer up Eva. Finally, she gives in and joins her in the joyful song. Soon Manny and Corrina show up and Molly joyfully runs to Corrina as the credits roll.
Corrina, Corrina (film)
1994