In 1943, Lieutenant Commander MacClain (Randolph Scott) has just lost his ship and most of his crewmen due to enemy action. While accompanying a convoy, he was attacked by a U-boat with a distinctive large Iron Cross painted on the conning tower. The U-boat surfaced and machine-gunned many of the survivors. Offered duty ashore, MacClain is determined to avenge his men. He is allocated a new ship and while waiting for it to be built, befriends Joyce Cartwright (Ella Raines), whose brother Dick, an officer, was killed under his command. MacClains new ship is christened as HMCS Donnacona , and soon a crew of 65, including officer Paul Cartwright (James Brown), Joyces younger brother is assigned to the corvette. Setting out as an escort to a convoy heading for England, the Donnacona comes upon a grisly sight, a lifeboat filled with dead sailors, the result of a deadly U-boat attack. In an ocean storm, his ship is separated from the convoy, but 300 miles from the Irish coast, MacClain finds other lost ships that had also been separated from the other escort ships. The captain of one of the ships, the tanker Egyptian Star relays the information that he thinks a submarine has been trailing the ship. The small group of ships becomes the target of Luftwaffe bombers that are chased off by a British fighter launched from one of the escort ships. The submarines below are still the main concern and when the Egyptian Star is torpedoed and sunk, MacClain attacks, sinking a U-boat with depth charges. Another U-boat surfaces and in a running battle cripples the Donnacona . MacClain attempts to ram the submarine and when it begins to dive, Lt. Cartwright and seaman Stooky OMeara (Barry Fitzgerald) set off depth charges, sinking the U-boat. As it breaks up, MacClain recognizes it as the one which had machine-gunned his men, killing his former crew. The corvette, along with six surviving merchant ships, limps to safely in Ireland, but before it sets anchor, MacClain is asked to sail the Donnacona past the other ships in the harbor, so that its crew may be saluted for their bravery.
Corvette K-225
1943