In 1873 New Mexico Territory, an unnamed loner (Daniel Craig) awakens injured in the desert with no memory and with a strange metal thing on his wrist. He wanders into the town of Absolution, where preacher Meacham treats his wound. Sheriff Taggart recognizes the stranger as wanted outlaw Jake Lonergan and attempts to arrest him. Jake beats up the posse sent to take him in and nearly escapes, but a woman named Ella Swenson (Olivia Wilde) knocks him out. Taggart prepares to transport both Jake and volatile drunk Percy Dolarhyde to Santa Fe for trial. Percys father, Colonel Woodrow Dolarhyde (Harrison Ford), a ruthless cattle baron, demands Percy be released. He also demands Jake be released to him, since Jake had stolen gold from him. During the standoff, alien spacecraft begin attacking the town. Percy, the sheriff and other townsfolk are abducted by long, whip-like feelers hanging from the bottom of the ships. Jakes bracelet activates and becomes a weapon; he shoots down a ship, ending the attack. Dolarhyde, Ella, and other townsfolk form a posse to track an injured alien that escaped from the downed ship. Meanwhile, Jake travels to an abandoned cabin and, in a flashback, recalls returning to it with stolen gold and then being abducted, along with a woman named Alice, by the aliens. His memories returning, Jake joins up with the posse. During the evening, the group comes upon a capsized paddle wheel steamboat that the aliens apparently dumped hundreds of miles from any rivers capable of holding it. They camp in it, and during the night the alien they were tracking kills Meacham, who sacrifices himself to save Emmett, Taggarts grandson. By morning, most of the posse has deserted, and those remaining are attacked by Jakes former gang. Jake, who had stolen the gangs loot after their last heist, attempts to retake control but it is foiled. The aliens begin attacking them again and Ella is captured. Jake jumps aboard the ship and attacks the alien pilot, causing the ship to crash. The alien survives the crash, suddenly comes out of the water and attacks Ella, fatally wounding her. Jake then kills the alien with his wrist-blaster. The remaining posse is captured by Chiricahua Apache Native Americans, who blame them for the alien attacks. After Ellas corpse is dumped on a fire by a Chiricahua warrior, she is resurrected and emerges from the fire. Ella reveals herself to be from another alien race, who had travelled to Earth to help resist the invaders after they destroyed her home world. The aliens, who are mining gold and abducting people to conduct experiments to find humans weaknesses, are far stronger and more durable than humans, and have superior weaponry, but are not invulnerable. They can be stabbed and shot to death, but only Jakes gauntlet weapon or a well-aimed shot with a rifle can kill them with a single blast. Ella tells them that the aliens which previously attacked them are just scouts. She also claims Jake holds the secret to the aliens whereabouts and argues that they must defeat the aliens before the invaders exterminate all life on earth. After taking medicine offered by the Apaches medicine man, Jake recalls that Alice was euthanized after she was used in an alien experiment, but he had escaped, inadvertently stealing the gauntlet-like alien weapon encasing his wrist. He then also remembers the location of the aliens base of operations. Armed with this knowledge, the group, now led by Dolarhyde, prepares to attack the aliens grounded mother ship. Meanwhile, Jake returns to his old gang and persuades them to join the fight. After the humans maneuver the aliens into a ground battle, Jake and Ella board the ship and free the captives, but Jake is captured. Dolarhyde rescues him, and both men escape from the ship after killing the alien responsible for Alices death. As the remaining aliens are taking off in their damaged craft, Ella sacrifices herself by entering the ships core and destroying it by using Jakes wrist gauntlet as a bomb, obliterating the ship. With the aliens gone the abducted townsfolk begin to remember their pasts. Still a wanted man, Jake decides to leave, though the sheriff and Dolarhyde say they will claim he was killed in the invasion. The citizens intend to reconstruct their town.
Cowboys & Aliens
2011