Peter Joseph "Peejoe" Bullis lives in a small town in Alabama in 1965, at the height of the Civil Rights Movement. Peejoes eccentric Aunt Lucille Vinson poisons her husband Chester to death after suffering years of abuse. She decapitates him and brings his severed head with her en route to Hollywood, where she is convinced that television stardom awaits her. In New Orleans, Lucille purchases a black hat box to store Chesters head. When a bartender on Bourbon Street insults her, she threatens him with a revolver and robs the cash register before stealing his car. Back in Alabama, Peejoes father (Lucilles brother), Dove, a local funeral director, is notified of the incident. During her travels, Lucille becomes increasingly paranoid, convinced that Chesters ghost is haunting her. Meanwhile, Peejoe becomes involved with a group of black students protesting the towns racially-segregated municipal swimming pool, leading to a protest that explodes into deadly violence. A young black boy, Taylor Jackson, is killed by the town sheriff, John Doggett. Peejoe, the only witness, is pressured by the sheriff to keep it quiet. While mowing his lawn, Peejoe is struck in the eye with a rock; the townspeople circulate a false story that he was been shot in retaliation for Taylors death. The black townspeople stage a protest honoring Taylor in which they enter the town swimming pool. Peejoe and his brother, Wiley, join them in support, but the protest is interrupted by police and white pro-Confederates. Lucille wins $32,000 in Las Vegas while playing roulette at a casino, and subsequently pays for a personal driver, Norman, to bring her to Los Angeles. She arrives in Hollywood, taking the stage name Carolyn Clay, and manages to land a minor role on Bewitched. Back in Alabama, and Peejoe and Wiley attend a speech by Martin Luther King Jr., and Peejoes racist aunt Earline grows infuriated over the publicity involving the family. While watching television one night, they are all surprised to see Lucille on television. At an industry party in the Hollywood Hills, hostess Joan Blake discovers Chesters severed head in Lucilles hat box. Lucille flees with Norman to San Francisco, and tries to get rid of the head by throwing it off the Golden Gate Bridge. Two policemen, thinking she is about to commit suicide, stop her and discover the head. She is arrested and escorted back to Alabama for her trial, where she is met by a media circus. In the local jail, Lucille is incarcerated in a cell next to Nehemiah Jackson, Taylors father who has been jailed over the protest. After being convicted of first-degree murder, Lucille is sentenced to twenty years in prison. However, the sentence is suspended when she earns the judges sympathies after testifying to the abuse she received, and she is put on a five-year probation with the condition that she seek psychiatric help. Lucille, her children, and all her friends joyfully exit the courtroom while the sheriff (through Peejoes testimony) is put under arrest for Taylors murder.
Crazy in Alabama
1999