In Buffalo, New York, 1887, American heiress Edith Cushing (Sofia Wells), the young daughter of wealthy businessman Carter Cushing (Jim Beaver), is visited by her recently deceased mothers black, disfigured ghost who warns her, "Beware of Crimson Peak." Fourteen years later in 1901, Edith (Mia Wasikowska), a budding author, meets Sir Thomas Sharpe (Tom Hiddleston), an English baronet who has come to the United States with his sister, Lucille (Jessica Chastain), to seek investors for his clay-mining invention. Unimpressed with Sharpes previous failures to raise capital, Cushing rejects Thomass proposal. Ediths mothers spirit once again visits her, bearing the same warning. When Thomas and Edith become romantically involved, both Ediths father and her childhood friend, Dr. Alan McMichael (Charlie Hunnam), disapprove. Mr. Cushing hires a private detective who uncovers unsavory facts about the Sharpes. Mr. Cushing bribes the siblings to have Thomas end his and Ediths relationship. Thomas however sends Edith a note explaining his actions. After Mr. Cushing is brutally murdered, Edith and Thomas marry and return to England. They arrive at Allerdale Hall, the Sharpes dilapidated mansion, which is steadily sinking into the red clay mine it sits atop. Edith finds that Lucille is cold towards her. Much to Ediths confusion, Thomas is physically distant and their marriage remains unconsummated. Gruesome red ghosts begin appearing to Edith throughout the mansion. To calm her, Thomas takes her to the local post office, where she discovers that Thomas had some connection to an Italian woman. They are snowed in for the night and finally make love. Lucille angrily lashes out after their return, frightening Edith. By the time Thomas mentions that the estate is referred to as "Crimson Peak", due to the warm red clay seeping up through the snow, Edith is growing weak and coughing up blood. Edith explores the mansion and pieces clues together, discovering that Thomas previously married three wealthy women who were fatally poisoned for their inheritances. She realizes she, too, is being poisoned through tea, and that the siblings have had a long-term incestuous relationship, resulting in a sickly infant that later died. Lucille also murdered their mother after she had discovered her childrens incest. Thomas inherited the family manor that, like many aristocratic estates of the era, is no longer profitable; the Sharpes are virtually penniless. The brother and sister began a "marriage and murder" scheme to support themselves and finance Thomass inventions. Back in the United States, Alan learns what Mr. Cushing had uncovered about the Sharpes prior to his death: Thomass multiple marriages and Lucilles time in a mental institution. He travels to Allerdale Hall to rescue Edith. When Alan arrives, Lucille demands that Thomas kill him. Thomas, who has fallen in love with Edith and wants to protect her, inflicts a non-fatal stab wound to Alan before hiding him. Lucille forces Edith to sign a transfer deed granting the Sharpes ownership of her estate and also confesses that she was the one who murdered Ediths father. Edith stabs Lucille and tries to flee. Thomas promises to help her and Alan escape. Lucille, jealous over Thomas falling in love with Edith, murders him, then pursues Edith. Aided by Thomass white ghost, Edith kills Lucille with a shovel, and later, she silently says farewell to her husbands ghost before he vanishes. In the end, Edith and Alan flee the mansion and are rescued, whereas Lucille becomes a ghost, doomed to stay alone in the mansion while playing her favourite piano, for all eternity. The beginning of the end credits imply that Edith has written a novel titled Crimson Peak based on her experiences.
Crimson Peak
2015