On an asteroid prison, a group of dangerous aliens known as Krites are set to be transported to another station. The Krites engineer an escape and hijack a ship, prompting the warden to hire two shape-changing bounty hunters to pursue them to Earth. Studying life on Earth via various satellite television transmissions, the first bounty hunter assumes the form of rock star Johnny Steele, while the second remains undecided, thus retaining his blank, featureless head. On a rural Kansas farm, the Brown family sits down to breakfast. Father Jay and mother Helen send teenage daughter April and younger son Brad off to school while waiting on mechanic Charlie McFadden. A former baseball pitcher, Charlie has become the town drunk and crackpot, with claims of alien abductions foretold by messages through his fillings. Playing with fireworks and Charlies slingshot, Brad takes the blame when Charlie accidentally shoots April and is grounded as a result. On the roof that evening, Brad mistakes the Critters crashing spaceship for a meteorite; Jay and Brad investigate and interrupt the creatures consuming a cow. The creatures thereafter consume a police officer, and later approach the farm and cut its electrical connection. Checking the circuit breaker, Jay is attacked by one of the Critters, who can shoot venomous quills that numb and tranquilize their targets. In the barn, April is about to have sex with her boyfriend Steve when he is killed by the Critters. Brad kills one of them by tricking it into eating a cherry bomb firecracker. Meanwhile, the two bounty hunters search the town, causing a panic at the church and bowling alley, with the second hunter assuming the form of various townspeople including Charlie. They are later recruited by Brad and discover the Crites location. The Crites kidnap April and return to their ship when the bounty hunters arrive, and attempt to flee while firing on the Brown farmhouse. However, Charlie and Brad manage to rescue April, and Brad throws a Molotov cocktail made from Charlies whiskey bottle into the ship, causing a fire which ignites the ships extra fuel and kills all the Crites. The bounty hunters leave in their ship after giving Brad a handheld device to contact them in case of future invasion, and also restore the house. At the end, Critter eggs can be seen in the barn inside a chickens nest that seem to be ready to hatch.
Critters (film)
1986