In 16th Century London, a pauper called Tom Canty reads to a group a children but is attacked by his cruel father John Canty and threatened that he will be beaten if he does not steal five shillings by suppertime. Tom goes into the city square and steals a purse from a rich man, but drops it after bumping into another man. Thinking that Tom still has the purse, the rich man and other men chase Tom through the streets of London. Tom escapes by climbing up a wall and through a window, where he falls into a palace garden in front of King Henry VIII, who sets the guards on him. However, Tom outruns them by going to the roof of the castle and hiding in a chimney. In the grounds, Henry VIII orders for The Duke of Norfolk to be arrested during the masked ball that evening. In his royal chamber, Prince Edward of Wales insists on not wearing a costume to the masked ball and his dressers leave him. Tom falls down the chimney into the chamber and Edward demands to know who he is. Tom introduces himself and explains his situation. Interested that Tom looks like him, Edward decides they swap appearances and clothes to attend the masked ball, but adds that the Princes Seal stays with the true Prince. However, Edward is mistaken for Tom by The Duke of Norfolk, who orders for him to be escorted out of the palace. Outside, Edward is rescued by skilled swordsman Sir Miles Hendon. At the masked ball, The Duke of Norfolk is arrested and Henry VIII and the guests laugh at Toms dancing, despite Tom repeatedly claiming that hes not the Prince of Wales. Meanwhile, despite Edward repeatedly claiming that he is the Prince of Wales, Miles says he believes him, but actually doesnt and takes him to John Canty where Edward discovers what Toms life is like. But when John attempts to beat Edward, Miles intervenes and a fight breaks out, resulting in John pushing Miles off a roof into a stream. John is declared a murderer and he flees London with Edward. At the castle, Henry VIII has fallen ill since the morning after the masked ball and he orders for no one to declare that Tom is not the Prince, not even Tom himself. During a banquet, Henry VIII dies in his royal chamber and Tom commands that The Duke of Norfolk shall not die. In some woods, John and Edward are escorted by some unfriendly men to an underground cavern where Rufflers gang hide out. However, they are unfriendly and reveal that word has reached them of Henry VIIIs death. After winning a fight with one of the gang members, Edward leaves and John goes after him to beat him again, but is killed by another member of Rufflers gang. Outside, Edward meets Miles, having survived his fall. Miles takes Edward to Hendon Hall, where Miles is outraged to discover his brother Hugh Hendon has married Miles love interest Lady Edith and taken Hendon Hall for himself. Hugh has Miles and Edward captured, but Edith helps them escape and Edward convinces Miles that he (Edward) really is the rightful King and offers to restore him to his honour as a Knight. The day of the crowning arrives and Edward and Miles race to London by hijacking a horse and cart which Hugh and Edith are in. Miles swaps clothes with Hugh and ties him up in the cart, but he breaks out in London and attempts to have Miles arrested, but Miles and Edward fight off the guards and Edward gets inside the building before the doors are closed. Edward halts the ceremony and he and Tom swap back to their original positions, admitting to each other that they were not good at each others position. Archbishop Cranmer and other witnesses are stunned until Edward presents the Princes Seal and takes his position as the rightful King. After the ceremony, Edward makes Tom Head Governor and his mother sets up shelters for the homeless. Miles is restored to his honour as a Knight and marries Edith.
Crossed Swords (1977 film)
1997