Lucy (Britney Spears), Kit (Zoe Saldana), and Mimi (Taryn Manning) are three friends who live in a small Georgia town. As young children, they bury a "wish box" and vow to dig it up on the night of their high school graduation and pledge to stay best friends forever. However, as they grow up, their friendship fades due to their different approaches of high school: Lucy becomes the introverted valedictorian, Kit becomes the most popular girl in school, and Mimi becomes an outcast from a trailer park who is facing teenage pregnancy. On the night of their high school graduation, they keep their promise and get together to open the "wish box". As they start talking again, they remember their old wishes while burying the box: Mimi wanted to travel to California, Lucy wanted to find her mother, and Kit wanted to get married. Mimi brings up going to Los Angeles to audition for a record company. Kit and Lucy try to convince Mimi to not go all the way to Los Angeles due to the fact that she is 5 months pregnant and anything dangerous can happen. However, the next morning they decide to go together but each doing something separate: Mimi going to the audition, Kit visiting her fiancé, and Lucy finding her mother in Tucson, Arizona. They set out on the road with little money in a yellow 1973 Buick Skylark convertible with a guy named Ben (Anson Mount). Lucy, however, leaves without the permission of her overbearing father Pete (Dan Aykroyd), who wakes up the next day to find his daughter is gone. Shortly into their journey, the car breaks down. They realize that together they dont have enough money for either the travel or the repair costs. Mimi then suggests that they sing karaoke at a local bar, where good singers are tipped well by the customers. While at the bar, the girls dress up and go to the stage to perform. However, when the song starts, Mimi develops stage fright, being unable to sing. Seeing that they needed the money, Lucy takes her place, and quickly becomes a hit with the crowd. They make enough money to fix the car and continue on their way. Shortly after the group checks into a motel, Kit tells the girls about a rumor that she had heard about Ben, commenting that he had recently been released from jail, after killing someone. The girls then spend most of the journey feeling uneasy around him until they confront him. Ben reveals that he was in jail for driving his stepsister across state borders without parental consent because his stepfather was abusing her. Having established that Ben was not the assassin that they imagined him to be, Lucy and Ben grow closer especially after she reads him a poem she wrote about growing up in life. The girls talk properly to each other for the first time since they were kids. Lucy reveals that her mother left her and her father when she was a child, but she is convinced that her mother wants to find her, but is too scared. Kit, who was overweight as a child, has an overbearing mother who sent her to "fat camp" but now cannot stand that her daughter is more beautiful than her. Mimi reveals that her babys father is not her ex-boyfriend, but a guy who raped her after she got drunk at a party, and that she is planning to put the baby up for adoption. After they arrive in Tucson, Lucy finds her mother Caroline; however, Caroline is not happy to see Lucy. She reveals that she has remarried, and that she now has two sons ages seven and ten. She reveals to Lucy that she was an unintended pregnancy and that she wants nothing to do with her, and Lucy leaves the house heartbroken. As she promptly arrives at the motel, Ben comforts her and impresses her by writing some music to her poem. The following day, Lucy rejoins the others and goes on to Los Angeles. When they arrive, Kit brings Mimi along to surprise her fiancé, Dylan. While alone in the hotel, Lucy gives her virginity to Ben and they fall in love with each other. When Kit and Mimi arrive to Dylans place, it is revealed that he is cheating on Kit after they see another girl in his apartment. Already upset, Kit suddenly realizes that it was Dylan who raped Mimi and got her pregnant, and she punches him. Scared, Mimi runs away and falls down the stairs. Consequently, she loses her baby. The girls comfort her as she comes to terms with her loss as she had decided to keep the baby. Because of this, Lucy decides to call her father to take her and the girls back home. However, her father is still putting pressure on Lucy to do what he wants. Kit and Mimi tell her that they think she should go to the audition in Mimis place. She initially declines, but when she gets into her fathers car, after the entire journey, she realizes that everything that she has done has been to please her father instead of herself. Lucy tells her father to let her go and she runs after Ben, they embrace and kiss each other. She and the girls head off to the audition with Ben and receive a standing ovation after their performance of Lucys song, "Im Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman". In the end, the girls bury their “wish box” at the beach, this time deciding not to make any wishes in the future but instead to focus on the present and their friendship.
Crossroads (2002 film)
2002