Troublemaker student Sebastian Valmont (Robin Dunne) is transferring to Manchester Prep following his fathers new marriage to a wealthy divorcee. His current principal is insistent on having Sebastians permanent record relayed to his new school, thereby hampering his chance for a fresh start, but Sebastian already retaliated by pulling a cruel stunt on his wife. Following his arrival in New York, Sebastian discovers the wealth of his new family and first meets his deceitful and determined step-sister Kathryn Merteuil (Amy Adams). Sebastian quickly proves to be able to better her both at piano and vocabulary. This leads to a confrontation between Kathryn and Sebastian whereby she states that she has a comfortable lifestyle and that he "better not interfere". Sebastian begins school. While waiting to see his new headmaster, he encounters Danielle Sherman (Sarah Thompson), who is, unbeknownst to him, Headmaster Shermans daughter. Luckily, Sebastian swapped his permanent record for an excelling one before it was sent to the headmasters office, and he can now start over with a clean slate. A school assembly follows, showing Kathryn delivering a speech to her classmates, but being persistently interrupted by uncontrollable hiccups coming from a student, who then begins to choke on the gum that she was chewing in a bid to stop her hiccups. She is saved by the quick action of Danielle who performs the Heimlich maneuver, allowing the student to expel the gum, which ends up flying into Kathryns hair. A meeting of a secret society of student elites presided by Kathryn takes place, deciding upon the fate of the new students. This leads them to Cherie, the student with the hiccups, as well as the discovery that Cheries family is wealthier than that of Kathryn; this, along with the events of the assembly, causes Kathryn to seek a vendetta against Cherie. Sebastian, coming from a more humble upbringing, wishes to befriend his house staff. Doing so angers Kathryn, whose day is interrupted by not being able to contact her driver. This, combined with Kathryns jealousy of Sebastian, causes her to admit that she is unhappy with her life. Sebastian attempts to woo Danielle: first, asking her for coffee at her work; then later, conversing with her over the telephone. Eventually, this evolves into a relationship, but Kathryn, seeing this, uses it as a way to get back at Sebastian. She tries to lure him away from Danielle by tempting him with identical twins, who confide to Sebastian that Danielle is the only virgin at Manchester. Kathryns attempt to sabotage Cherie backfires, as Kathryns mother tells her to become best friends with Cherie, in an attempt to encourage Cheries mother to donate a large amount of money to the school. In the end, Sebastian stays with Danielle; he professes his love for her, only to find that she does not reciprocate. It turns that Danielle is actually working alongside Kathryn in a secret plan to dupe Sebastian. Defeated by Kathryns manipulation, Sebastian states "if you cant beat them, join them", thus leading to a threesome with Danielle and Kathryn, followed by an alliance of the three to dominate and manipulate others. In the last scene, Cherie is seen riding her bike, which is run over by Sebastians car. Sebastian offers to give her a ride, and has sex with her. Kathryn and Danielle are seen, in the front of the car, pleased with the results.
Cruel Intentions 2
2001