Charlie Hinton is a food products marketing executive whose wife Kim has just gone back to work as a lawyer. They enroll their son Ben, in Chapman Academy, an expensive and very academic pre-school headed by a woman named Miss Harridan. Some time later, Charlie and his best friend, Phil Ryerson, are laid off. Unable to find either a suitable daycare or new employment, Charlie pulls Ben out of Chapman due to its cost and decides to open up a day care center in his home with the help of Phil, calling it Daddy Day Care. At first, the local parents are suspicious of men wanting to work with kids, but as Daddy Day Care is cheaper and more child-centered than Chapman Academy, the latter begins to lose students. Unwilling to accept the presence of competition, Miss Harridan attempts to shut down Daddy Day Care by notifying child services that Charlie and Phil are not following the relevant regulations. Mr. Dan Kubitz, a director of child services, notifies them of the codes that they need to fix, which Charlie and Phil quickly correct. Daddy Day Care grows in popularity and attracts more children and parents. Mr. Kubitz then informs Phil and Charlie that they need another employee to keep an appropriate ratio of children to caregivers. Luckily, Marvin, a nerdy former co-worker, had dropped by and after seeing how good he is at entertaining the children, Phil and Charlie ask him about joining. Marvin is unsure at first, but then finds himself falling for Kelli, the single mother of Dylan-(one of the kids in the daycare) and agrees. Later, Mr. Kubitz tells them they have too many kids to stay at Charlies residence. They find an abandoned building with potential, but do not have the money to buy it. They hold a fund-raising event called "Rock for Daddy Day Care", which Miss Harridan finds out about. She and her assistant Jenny sabotage the festival by unplugging a bouncy castle, filling the food with cockroaches, switching face paint with glue, releasing animals from the petting zoo, and turning on the park sprinklers. As a result, Daddy Day Care does not raise enough money. Shortly after, Charlie and Phil are offered their old jobs back, accepting Miss Harridans offer to take the kids back to the academy at a lower cost. Marvin, heartbroken by the closing of the day care, declines Charlie and Phils offer to be on board their marketing panel. Charlie soon realizes during a cereal pitch that the time he has given to his new life, that the increased bond with his son is "the most important thing", and starts to question the morality of his current assignment (which involves marketing a high-sugar breakfast cereal to children). He quits his job and tells Phil to quit with him. Then he and Phil pick up Marvin before heading off to Chapman Academy. Charlie confronts Harridan, claiming she doesnt care about what children want. Listing examples of how he has helped the children improve, Charlie successfully convinces the children and their parents to return to Daddy Day Care, making it a raging success, and causing Chapman Academy to shut down for good. Marvin is now in a relationship with Kelli, Miss Harridan gets demoted to a school crossing guard, and Jenny joins Daddy Day Care at the new facility.
Daddy Day Care
2007