Aging 1970s rocker Danny Collins (Al Pacino) cannot give up his hard-living ways – but then his manager, Frank Grubman (Christopher Plummer), uncovers a 40-year-old undelivered letter to him from John Lennon. After reading the letter, Danny decides to change his way of life. He travels to New Jersey to attempt to connect for the first time with his grown son, Tom Donnelly (Bobby Cannavale), whom he sired from a casual relationship with a woman who died 10 years before. Tom has a wife, Samantha (Jennifer Garner) and seven-year old daughter, Hope (Giselle Eisenberg). Seeking a new start, Danny forswears touring and checks into a Hilton hotel in New Jersey, much to the delight of the young staff. He begins to woo the hotel manager, Mary (Annette Bening). Tom initially rejects the father he believes abandoned him, but Danny persists, getting Hope, who has ADHD, into an exclusive school for children with special needs. He learns Tom has what doctors say may be terminal leukemia, inherited from his mother, and begins to attend doctors visits with him. Toms dislike of his father gradually gives way to the need for his support. Inspired by his feelings for Mary and his happiness at having a family, Danny begins to write new songs. He books a one-night performance at a small club. When the audience demands he play his old material, however, Danny loses his nerve and gives a rote performance. Ashamed, he resumes drinking and doing drugs, damaging his relationship with Mary and his family. Tom confronts him, causing Danny to angrily reveal Toms leukemia diagnosis, something Samantha had not been aware of. Tom, feeling betrayed, tells Danny never to bother his family again. Danny finds out from Frank that his finances are in danger, due to all his excessive habits, and that he needs to go on tour again. Danny goes to the hotel to mend fences with Mary. Tom is visited by Frank, who tells him that his father, despite many flaws, is a good man. Tom then finds Danny waiting at the doctors office to hear his diagnosis. Danny reassures him that everything will be all right, which, after the doctor arrives, appears to be the case.
Danny Collins (film)
2015