Ten years after the pandemic of the deadly ALZ-113 virus, later called Simian Flu, the worldwide human population was drastically reduced, with only about one in five hundred genetically immune to the virus. Meanwhile, the apes, under the chimpanzee Caesar, all bestowed with genetically enhanced intelligence by the virus, have long established a colony in the Muir Woods near San Francisco. One day, a group of humans led by a man named Malcolm enter the apes territory from San Francisco in search of a hydroelectric dam that would restore power to the city. An encounter by Caesars son Blue Eyes and his friend Ash leads to the latters injury by a man named Carver. Malcolm manages to prevent further escalation while Caesar orders the humans to leave. Prompted by Koba, a scarred bonobo who holds a grudge against humans for his mistreatment as a test subject, Caesar brings his army to the humans community at an unfinished tower as a display of strength. Caesar announces his intent to fight the humans if forced to while demanding the humans to stay in their territory. Malcolm convinces his fellow leader Dreyfus to give him time to take a small team to the forest and reconcile with the apes so they can access the dam. He meets with Caesar, who allows them to work on the generator on the condition that they surrender their guns. As Malcolm, his wife Ellie, and son Alexander work, they bond with the apes. The fragile bonding is greatly helped when Ellie, a nurse, effectively treats Cornelias illness. Meanwhile, Dreyfus arms his community using the Fort Point armory. Koba discovers the armory and confronts Caesar of this, but accuses him of loving humans more than apes. Caesar beats Koba in response but refrains from killing him. Koba later returns to the armory and takes an assault rifle, killing two guards and then Carver as the humans succeed in repairing the generator and restoring power to the city. Koba takes advantage of their celebration to covertly set fire to the apes home. He then shoots Caesar, who falls into the underbrush below, and frames the humans for Caesars apparent death in order to wage war. Koba quickly takes command and leads the apes into San Francisco, where they plunder the armory and mount an assault on the tower. The apes breach the building and imprison the humans as Dreyfus flees underground. When Ash refuses Kobas orders to kill unarmed humans, citing Caesars teachings, Koba throws the ape to his death and has any other ape loyal to Caesar imprisoned. Malcolms family finds Caesar barely alive and transports him to his former house in San Francisco. Caesar reveals that Koba shot him and confesses that apes can be as corrupt and violent as humans. When Malcolm sneaks into the settlement to find medical supplies for Caesar, he encounters Blue Eyes, who spares him before learning that his father is still alive and that it was Koba who shot him, not the humans. After reconciling with Caesar, Blue Eyes returns to the tower and frees the imprisoned humans and apes. Malcolm escorts the apes into the tower, and then finds Dreyfus. He learns that the return of electricity allowed Dreyfus men to make radio contact with survivors at a military base, who are now coming to fight the apes. Caesar confronts Koba at the top of the tower; as they fight, Dreyfus detonates C-4 charges that destabilize the tower in a failed attempt to kill the apes, at the cost of his own life. Koba starts shooting at the apes, but Caesar tackles him off a ledge. While clinging on a metal girder, Koba is rejected as an ape by Caesar and dropped to his death. Malcolm and Caesar acknowledge their friendship, with Malcolm warning of the approaching human military. Caesar responds that the humans will never forgive the apes for their attack and convinces Malcolm to leave with his family. He then stands before a kneeling mass of apes, preparing for war.
Dawn of the Planet of the Apes
2014