Zombies have overrun the entire world, outnumbering humans 400,000 to 1. The remaining live humans live in barricaded camps and secure underground bunkers. In an underground facility in the Everglades that houses scientists and soldiers, the scientists are trying to find a solution to the zombie pandemic, in exchange for the soldiers to protect them and to facilitate their work. Dr. Sarah Bowman (Lori Cardille), her boyfriend Private Miguel Salazar (Anthony Dileo Jr.), radio operator Bill McDermott (Jarlath Conroy), and helicopter pilot John (Terry Alexander) fly from their underground base to Fort Myers, Florida, in an attempt to locate additional survivors. They encounter a large horde of the undead and return to their army base. Dr. Logan (Richard Liberty), the lead scientist—also known as "Frankenstein" due to his grisly surgical dissections of zombies—believes that the zombies can be trained to become docile, and accordingly has amassed a collection of test subjects, which are kept in a large underground corral in the compound, in spite of the objections of Captain Rhodes (Joseph Pilato). The tension between soldiers and scientists worsens in the face of dwindling supplies, loss of communication with other survivors, and slow progress in research. During a meeting between the scientists and the soldiers, Rhodes announces that, following the death of the previous base commander Major Cooper, he is taking command of the base. He also informs the scientists that henceforth they will work under his orders, and that anyone who objects will be executed instantly. Dr. Logan hopes to secure Rhodes cooperation by showing him the results of his research. He is especially proud of "Bub" (Sherman Howard), a docile zombie who remembers some parts of his past life and engages in rudimentary human behavior: listening to music, aiming a pistol, saluting Captain Rhodes and even repeating a string of garbled words. "Civility must be rewarded," Logan tells Rhodes. "If its not rewarded, theres no use for it." Rhodes, however, is not impressed. During a zombie roundup mission, two of the soldiers, Miller (Phillip G. Kellams) and Johnson (Gregory Nicotero) are killed after a zombie escapes its harness, whereupon Miguel attempts to kill the creature, but is bitten on the arm. Sarah amputates the arm and cauterizes it with fire to stop the spreading infection. Rhodes then calls off the experiments and demands that all captive zombies be destroyed. Sarah and Bill later discover a crude form of Dr. Logans experimentation involving the bodies of Miller and Johnson and an audio tape in which a crazed Logan talks to his "Father" and "Mother"; shocked; both Sarah and Bill plan to leave in the helicopter immediately before someone else does. Conditions worsen further when Rhodes finds out that Logan has been feeding the flesh of his dead soldiers to Bub as a reward for his docility and positive behavior. Enraged, Rhodes kills Logan and his assistant Dr. Fisher. He then locks Sarah and Bill inside the zombie corral and attempts to force John to fly him and his men away from the base, which John refuses to do. Bub manages to escape from his chain and finds Dr. Logans corpse. In a display of human emotion, he expresses sadness and then becomes enraged. He finds a pistol discarded on the floor and goes in search of revenge. Meanwhile, Miguel, who has become suicidal, opens the gates to the compound, allowing the horde of zombies lurking outside to enter onto the industrial-sized platform-elevator, devouring him. Before they kill him, he lowers the platform, allowing them to enter the compound. While Miguel is doing this, John overcomes his captors, knocks both Rhodes and Torrez out, steals their weapons, and goes into the zombie corral to rescue Sarah and Bill. The zombies rapidly enter the complex; Pvt. Rickles (Ralph Marrero) and Pvt. Torrez (Taso Stavrakis) are torn apart by the horde while Pvt. Steel (Gary Howard Klar) attempts to shoot Bub through a covered window, but gets bitten on the neck by another zombie. Refusing to be eaten alive or succumb to the infection, he commits suicide by shooting himself in the head. Rhodes attempts to escape, but is chased and shot several times by a gun-toting Bub. Bub chases Rhodes, staggering and cursing but still alive, into a horde of zombies and Bub mocks Rhodes with a salute and departs, as the other zombies tear Rhodes to pieces. John reunites with Sarah and McDermott inside the zombie corral. They escape together to the surface, board the helicopter, and fly to a safely deserted island on which they will spend the rest of their lives.
Day of the Dead (1985 film)
2005