San Francisco public relations executive Joe Clay (Jack Lemmon) meets and falls in love with secretary Kirsten Arnesen (Lee Remick). Kirsten is a teetotaler until Joe introduces her to social drinking. She is reluctant at first, but after her first few Brandy Alexanders, she admits that having a drink "made me feel good." Despite the misgivings of Kirstens father (Charles Bickford), who runs a San Mateo landscaping business, they marry and have a daughter, Debbie. Joe and Kirsten slowly go from the "two-martini lunch" to full-blown alcoholism. Joe is demoted due to poor performance, and is sent out of town to work on a minor account. Kirsten is alone all day, and finds drinking the best way to pass the time. While drunk one afternoon she causes a fire in their apartment that almost kills her and Debbie. Eventually Joe gets fired and spends the next several years going from job to job. One day, Joe walks by a bar, sees his reflection in the window, and realizes in horror that he hardly knows his own face. He goes home and tells Kirsten that they must stop drinking, and she reluctantly agrees. Seeking escape from their addiction, Joe and Kirsten work together in Mr. Arnesens business and stay sober for two months. But the urge is too strong, and after a late-night drinking binge, Joe destroys his father-in-laws greenhouse and plants while looking for a stashed liquor bottle. Joe is committed to a sanitarium where he suffers from delirium tremens while confined in a straitjacket. After his release, Joe finally gets sober for a while with the help of Alcoholics Anonymous, a dedicated sponsor named Jim Hungerford (Jack Klugman), and regular AA meetings. He explains to Joe how alcoholics often demonstrate obsessive behavior, pointing out that Kirstens previous love of chocolate may have been the first sign of an addictive personality, and counsels him that most drinkers hate to drink alone in the company of sober people. Meanwhile, Kirstens drinking persists, and she disappears for several days without contacting Joe. She is eventually located at a nearby motel, drunk, but when Joe tries to help her, he instead ends up drinking again. When their supply runs out, Joe happens upon a liquor store that closed for the night, breaks in, and steals a bottle, resulting in another trip to the sanitarium stripped down and tied to a treatment table. Hungerford appears at his side and warns him that he must keep sober no matter what, even if that means staying away from Kirsten. Joe finally gets sober, becomes a responsible father to Debbie, and holds down a steady job. He tries to make amends with his father-in-law by offering him payment for past debts and wrongs, but Mr. Arnesen accuses him of being indirectly responsible for Kirstens alcoholism. After calming down, Arnesen says that Kirsten has been disappearing for long stretches of time and picking up strangers in bars. One night after Debbie is asleep, Kirsten, shakily sober for two days, comes to Joes apartment to attempt a reconciliation. Joe replies that she is welcome back anytime, but only if she stops drinking. Kirsten refuses to admit shes an alcoholic, but does acknowledge that without alcohol, she "cant get over how dirty everything looks." Kirsten sadly advises Joe to give up on her, and leaves. Joe fights the urge to go after her, and looks through the window down the dark street as she walks away. When Debbie asks "Is she going to get well?" he answers gently, "I did, didnt I?" Again Joe looks down the street, the bars flashing sign reflecting in his window.
Days of Wine and Roses (film)
1962