On Christmas Eve in Los Angeles, a dispatched LASD Sheriff is shot dead by an armed robber, who early on robbed a convenience store and also killed its African-American owner. The alcoholic, hard-driven LAPD Detective Jerry Beck is tasked with the investigation. While examining police records he comes across a potential suspect named Bobby Burns, who has recently been paroled from a four-year robbery sentence. He and a parole officer go to Burns home only to find his college student brother, John, who claims he has not seen Bobby and is staying only for the holidays. A man attempts to flee the house and Beck captures him after a chase on foot; he turns out to be one of Burns friend who is also on parole for armed robbery. The man tells Beck that he last saw Burns driving a maroon Ford Ranch Wagon en route to Bakersfield. In Arizona, Burns and his goons rob a Mexican bar and kill its patrons. A local police chief informs Beck of the crime and he immediately leaves for Arizona. Beck and the chief head to a ranch alleged to be Burns hideout. There, Burns and his men attack the officers by firing automatic weapons; they escape driving the Ford. Beck retrieves a cache of documents Burns dropped, which contains white supremacy propaganda, maps, and an address book. Beck leaves for Oklahoma to track down one of the people listed in the book, Reverend Gebhardt, who is the leader of the religious white supremacist organization Aryan Nations. In Oklahoma, Beck is joined by FBI Agent Kressler and they head to Gebhardts church, where Gebhardt states the entitys aim to cleanse America of its "racial impurities," and denies having seen Burns before. Burns, though, has been hiding near the church conducting a stakeout. That night, Burns springs on Beck while driving his car and holds him at gunpoint. As Burns prepares to shoot him, Beck crashes his car into an oncoming police vehicle to escape. During a gunfight, Beck lights a matchbook and sets a car leaking gas on fire, causing Burns to escape with his men after an explosion. Back in Los Angeles, Becks superiors have gone frustrated of his performance in the force due in part to his alcoholism and uncouth behavior. They recommend he undergo a psychiatric analysis; after the session, though, Beck threatens the psychiatrist into letting him pass the evaluation. A phone call later that day informs him that he is now fit for duty. In Colorado he meets African-American police captain Dixon, who entrusts several of his black men on the force to track Burns. Along with Kressler, he and Dixon head to a paramilitary training camp, which is owned by the Aryan Nations, and ambush Gebhardt and the other members. His search for Burns yields no results, which causes a brawl between him and Kressler. Beck, though, discovers a concealed door that leads to a bunker. Upon entering a gunfight ensues between him and Burns, which ends after Beck shoots and fatally wounds him. As he lay dying, Burns divulges that he did not murder the police in Los Angeles. John emerges from behind and, as he prepares to shoot Beck and Kressler, confesses that it was he who shot the police officer to demonstrate to his brother that he shared his disdain against the police and his fidelity to white supremacy. Beck hurls him insults about his brother, and John reciprocates by open firing until he spends all his bullets. Exposed, Beck shoots him dead. Later at a press conference, Dixon informs that the FBI will be revising its position on white supremacy groups, and he credits Kressler with the success of the investigation owing to the evidence the agent gathered. Outside, Dixon and Beck befriend one another and go their separate ways.
Dead Bang
1989