Jamie Ashen and his wife, Lisa, receive an anonymous gift of a ventriloquist doll called "Billy". While Lisa is playing with Billy, a figure approaches her, causing her to scream. Jamie finds her dead with her tongue cut out. After Jamie is released from custody by Detective Jim Lipton due to lack of evidence, he spots inside Billys box a mysterious message about "Mary Shaw", a deceased ventriloquist from his hometown, Ravens Fair. At Ravens Fair, Jamie visits his estranged, wealthy and wheelchair-bound father, Edward, and his much-younger wife, Ella, for information regarding Mary Shaw. Dismissing them as superstitions, Jamie arranges for Lisas funeral with the help of a local mortician, Henry Walker. Jamie meets Henrys senile wife, Marion, who tells him of the danger of Mary and her puppet, Billy. After burying Billy, Jamie is confronted by Detective Lipton in his motel room, the latter still doubting Jamie, and digs up Billy, after Jamie leaves the cemetery where Mary Shaw and the rest of her dummies are buried. Henry tells Jamie about Shaw. Shaw was a famous ventriloquist who was publicly humiliated when a boy, Michael, rudely claimed that he could see mouth moving. Michael disappeared some weeks later, and his family blamed it on Shaw, and lynched her. Her last wish was to have her body turned into a dummy and buried with her 101 dolls. Henry, then the young son of the local mortician, saw Shaw (after she was turned to a dummy) rise up, but Henry was spared thanks to his having kept his mouth shut. This is because Shaw takes her revenge by killing only those who scream. Jamie finds out that Michael, the first victim, was his great uncle; the Ashen family were the ones who killed Shaw by cutting out her tongue, and she has been seeking revenge against their entire bloodline by killing them the same way. While crawling under the house after discovering Marion with the Billy puppet, Henry is killed by Shaw, who steals his tongue. Detective Lipton discovers that all of Shaws dolls have been dug up. He informs Jamie, who receives a call from "Henry," asking him to go to Shaws theatre. There, both Jamie and Detective Lipton discover 100 of the dolls lined up with Michaels body, which has been turned into a marionette. Through a clown-doll, Shaw reveals to Jamie that she killed his wife because she was pregnant with his son, thus killing any potential newborn of the Ashen family. Jamie and Lipton burn the theatre and all of Shaws dolls, though in the process, Shaw successfully makes Detective Lipton scream and kills him. Back at his fathers residence, Jamie is confronted by Mary Shaw but he repels her by throwing Billy (the 101st and last of the remaining dummies) into the fireplace. He is horrified to learn that his father had already died a long time ago; the current "Edward" is the corpse converted into a doll controlled by Ella, who is the "perfect doll" for Shaw, created just before her death. He screams as Ella, possessed by Mary Shaw, lunges at him. The film ends with Jamie reciting a nursery rhyme about Shaw and a photo album with human puppets is shown: Lisa, Henry, Detective Lipton, Edward, Ella, and Jamie himself.
Dead Silence
2007