In 1978, narcissistic, manipulative actress Madeline Ashton performs in an awful musical version of Sweet Bird of Youth on Broadway. She invites long-time rival Helen Sharp, an aspiring writer, backstage along with Helens fiancé, plastic surgeon Ernest Menville. Ernest is smitten with Madeline, and breaks off his engagement with Helen to marry her. Seven years later, in 1985, Helen winds up in a psychiatric hospital after fixating upon Madeline. Obese and depressed, Helen feigns rehabilitation and is released, plotting revenge on Madeline. Another seven years later, in 1992, Madeline lives in Beverly Hills with Ernest, but they are miserable. Madelines acting career has faded with age, and Ernest is an alcoholic reduced to working as a reconstructive mortician. Receiving an invitation to a party celebrating Helens new book, Madeline rushes to a spa where she regularly receives facial treatments. Understanding Madelines situation, the spa owner gives her the business card of Lisle von Rhoman, a woman specializing in youth rejuvenation. Madeline and Ernest attend the party for Helens novel, Forever Young, and discover that somehow, Helen is now slim, youthful and beautiful. Dumbfounded and depressed by Helens appearance, Madeline visits her young lover but discovers he is with a woman his age. Dejected, Madeline drives to Lisles home. Lisle is a mysterious, glamorous, wealthy socialite claiming to be 71, but looks much younger. She reveals to Madeline the secret of her beauty and youth: an expensive potion that promises eternal life and an everlasting youthful appearance. Madeline purchases and drinks the potion and is rejuvenated, regaining her beauty. As a condition of purchase, Madeline must disappear from public life after ten years to keep the existence of the potion secret. Lisle warns Madeline to take good care of her body. Helen seduces Ernest and convinces him to kill Madeline. When Madeline returns home, she and Ernest argue, during which Madeline falls down the stairs, breaking her neck. Believing Madeline dead, Ernest phones Helen for advice, not seeing Madeline stand and approach him with her head twisted backward. Ernest assumes she has a dislocated neck and drives her to the emergency room. Madeline is told she is technically dead and faints. She is taken to the morgue due to her body having no pulse and a temperature below 80°F. After rescuing Madeline, Ernest takes the sign of her "resurrection" as a miracle, returns home with Madeline and uses his skills as a mortician to repair her body. Helen demands information about Madelines situation. Overhearing Helen and Ernest discussing their plot to stage Madelines death, Madeline shoots Helen with a shotgun. Although the blast creates a hole in her stomach, Helen survives, revealing that she drank the same potion. Fed up with the pair, Ernest prepares to leave, but Helen and Madeline convince him to do one last repair on their bodies. They realize they will need constant maintenance and scheme to have Ernest drink the potion to ensure he will always be available. After bringing Ernest to Lisle, she offers to give him the potion free of charge in exchange for his surgical skills. Ernest refuses rather than being immortal. He pockets the potion and flees, but becomes trapped on the roof. Helen and Madeline implore Ernest to drink the potion to survive an impending fall. Ernest refuses and drops the potion to the ground several stories below, but after falling he lands in Lisles pool and escapes. After Lisle banishes Madeline and Helen from her group, the pair realize they must rely on each other for companionship and maintenance. Thirty-seven years later, Madeline and Helen attend Ernests funeral, where he is eulogized as having lived an adventurous and fulfilling life with a large family and friends. They are parodies of their former selves, with cracked, peeling paint and putty covering most of their grey and rotting flesh. Helen trips and teeters at the top of a staircase. After Madeline hesitates to help her, Helen grabs Madeline and the two tumble down the stairs, breaking to pieces. As their disembodied heads totter together, Helen sardonically asks Madeline, "Do you remember where you parked the car?"
Death Becomes Her
1992