Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) returns to New York City, having assumed the name Paul Stewart under the witness protection program. He is invited by girlfriend Olivia Regent (Lesley-Anne Down) to a fashion show. Backstage, mobster Tommy O’Shea (Michael Parks) and his goons muscle in. Tommy threatens Olivia, who is his ex-wife and mother to their daughter Chelsea (Erica Lancaster). Olivia later informs Paul of her ex-husbands behavior after he finds bruises on her hand. Paul confronts him, but Tommys henchman Chicki Paconi (Kevin Lund) pulls out a revolver at Paul. The confrontation ends with the arrival of Chelsea. D.A. Brian Hoyle (Saul Rubinek) and his associate Lt. Hector Vasquez (Miguel Sandoval) visit Pauls home. He informs them about Tommy O’Shea. Hoyle says they have been trying to nab Tommy for years, and he wants Olivia to testify. That night at a restaurant, Paul proposes to Olivia, who accepts. Olivia excuses herself to the bathroom and is attacked by Tommy’s associate, Freddie "Flakes" Garrity (Robert Joy), who bashes her head on a mirror, disfiguring her face. Freddie escapes, although Paul gets a look at him. At the hospital, Paul is told that even if Olivia will get reconstructive surgery, her face will never be the same. While there, he meets Lt. Mickey King (Kenneth Welsh) and his partner Janice Omori (Lisa Inouye), who are working on the OSheas case. During a failed bugging mission on the mob, Janice is killed by Freddie with his car. At the hospital, Lt. King warns Kersey not to go back to his old ways, before telling him that he has been working on the case for 16 years. Kersey says thats a long time to be failing. Paul and Olivia are attacked by Freddie and his henchmen, with Freddie shooting Olivia in the back, killing her as the couple tries to escape. Paul jumps from the roof of his apartment, where he lands in a pile of trash bags, and is retrieved by the police. Tommy is cleared of involvement in Olivia’s death and seeks custody of their daughter. Paul assaults Tommy, who leaves him unconscious. He decides to return to his vigilante ways and is assisted by Hoyle, who learns his department has been corrupted by Tommy. Paul poisons Chicki with a sugar-looking cyanide in his cannoli. He then kills Freddie by blowing him up with a remote-controlled soccer ball. Tommy finds out from an informant that Paul is the vigilante and will be going after him for killing Olivia. The informant, Hector Vasquez of the NYPD, tries to kill Paul himself, but Paul gets the upper hand and kills him. Fellow officer Hoyle arrives and finds out Tommy wants both him and Kersey dead. Hoyle tells Kersey he must never see him again, and Paul agrees. Tommy hires three thugs to take over Paul at the dress factory, using Chelsea as a bait, though she later manages to escape. Paul first faces the thugs and then Sal, another of Tommys men, by shooting him into an industrial sewing machine. Paul picks up an empty bottle, smashes it, and cuts Tommys face in retaliation for what he did to Olivia. Lt. King then arrives, but is wounded by Tommy. Armed with a shotgun, he corners Tommy and knocks him into an acid pool, where he disintegrates. King thanks Paul for saving his life. Paul goes to rejoin Chelsea, calling out to the injured King, "Hey Lieutenant, if you need any help, give me a call".
Death Wish V: The Face of Death
1994