Paul Kersey is an architect living in Manhattan with his wife Joanna and grown daughter Carol. One day, Joanna and Carol are followed home from DAgostinos by three thugs who invade the apartment, posing as deliverymen. They fatally injure Joanna and sexually assault Carol. After his wifes funeral during a snowstorm in Connecticut, Paul has an encounter with a mugger in a darkened street. Paul fights back with a homemade weapon - an improvised blackjack made from a sock with two rolls of quarters in it - causing the mugger to run away. Paul is shaken and energized by the encounter. Pauls boss sends him to Tucson, Arizona to see Ames Jainchill, a client with a residential development project. A few days later Paul is invited to dinner by Ames at his gun club. Ames is impressed with Pauls accuracy at the target range. Paul reveals that he was a conscientious objector during the Korean War when he served as a combat medic. He had been taught to handle firearms by his father, a hunter, but after he was killed in a hunting accident Pauls mother made him swear never to use guns again. Ames drives Paul back to the Tucson airport, and presents Paul with a gift for his work on the development, which he places into Pauls checked luggage. Back in Manhattan, Paul learns from his son-in-law, Jack, that his daughter is severely depressed from the trauma of the assault and is now catatonic. Paul and his son-in-law have his daughter committed to a mental hospital. Paul learns that Ames has given him a revolver. He loads it, then takes a late night walk during which he is mugged at gunpoint. Paul shoots the mugger, and in a state of shock, he runs home to vomit. The next night Paul walks through the city looking for violent criminals. Over the next few weeks, Paul kills several people, some of whom he provokes into attacking him and others whom he sees attacking others. NYPD Lt. Frank Ochoa investigates the vigilante killings. His department narrows it down to a list of men who have had a family member recently killed by muggers and who are war veterans. Ochoa soon suspects Paul and is about to make an arrest when the District Attorney intervenes and tells Ochoa to "let him loose" in another city instead. The D.A. and the Police Commissioner do not want the fact to get out that street crime in New York City has dropped dramatically since Paul became a vigilante and fear that if he is not stopped the whole city will descend into chaos. But they dont want him to be arrested, because they dont want a martyr. Ochoa does not like the idea, but relents. Paul shoots two muggers on the stairs before being wounded in the leg by a third mugger with a pistol, who then Kersey pursues to a warehouse. When Paul corners him, he challenges him to a fast draw, only to faint, with the mugger escaping. His gun is discovered by a young patrolman Jackson Reilly, who hands it to Ochoa, and is told to forget he ever saw it. The press are informed that Paul is just another mugging victim. Hospitalized, Paul is ordered by Ochoa to leave New York, permanently. Ochoa tells Paul to have his company transfer him to another city and, in exchange, Ochoa will dispose of Pauls revolver. Paul arrives in Chicago Union Station by train. Being greeted by a company representative, he notices a group of hoodlums harassing a young woman. He excuses himself and helps the woman. The hoodlums make obscene gestures, but Paul makes a finger gun at them and smiles.
Death Wish (1974 film)
1987