In an underwater facility, a team of scientists is doing research on mako sharks to help in the re-activation of dormant human brain cells like those found in Alzheimers disease patients. After one of their sharks escapes the facility and attempts to attack a boat full of teenagers, financial backers send corporate executive Russell Franklin to investigate the facility. In the laboratory, doctors Susan McAlester and Jim Whitlock prove their research is working by testing a certain protein complex that was removed from the brain tissue of their largest shark. However, Jims right arm is bitten off by the animal shortly afterwards. Brenda Kerns, the towers operator, calls a helicopter to evacuate Jim, but as he is being lifted, the stormy weather causes Jim to fall into the shark pen. The shark then grabs Jims stretcher and pulls the helicopter into the tower, killing Brenda and the pilots. In the laboratory, Susan, Russell, wrangler Carter Blake, marine biologist Janice Higgins, and engineer Tom Scoggins witness the shark smash Jims stretcher against the laboratorys main window, drowning him and flooding the facility. With few options left, the group goes to the facilitys wet entry, where they plan to take a submersible to escape. Upon being confronted, Susan confesses to the others that she and Jim genetically engineered the sharks to increase their brain size, as they were not large enough to harvest sufficient amounts of the protein complex; this has the side effect of making them smarter and deadly. When the group reaches the wet entry, they discover that the submersible has been damaged. While delivering a monologue emphasizing the need for group unity, Russell is dragged into the submersible pool by the shark and killed. The remaining members opt to climb up the elevator shaft at the risk of destabilizing the pool. In the process, Janice loses her grip and falls into the shark-infested water. Despite Carters attempts to save her, the shark ultimately kills her. In the facilitys kitchen, which has been partially flooded, cook Sherman "Preacher" Dudley manages to kill the first shark with an explosion. He then makes his way to the elevator shaft, where he encounters Carter, Tom and Susan. Carter and Tom go to the flooded laboratory to activate a control panel that drains a stairway to the surface, while Susan heads to her room to collect her research material. Carter and Tom reach the control panel, but the largest shark ultimately kills Tom and destroys the controls. In her room, Susan is ambushed by another shark, but manages to kill it with a power cable, destroying her research in the process. After regrouping, Carter, Susan and Preacher go to a decompression chamber and swim to the surface. Carter realizes that the sharks made them flood the facility so they could escape through the weaker mesh fences at the surface. In an effort to distract the last shark from escaping to the open sea, Susan cuts herself and dives into the water. Although she manages to distract the shark, she is unable to get out of the water. Carter dives in, but is too late to save her from being devoured. While Carter is grabbing hold of the sharks dorsal fin, Preacher shoots the shark with a harpoon, but the spear also goes through Carters thigh. As the shark breaks through the fence, Carter orders Preacher to connect the trailing wire to a battery, sending an electric current through the wire and to an explosive charge in the harpoon, killing the shark. In the end, Carter managed to free himself in time, and joins Preacher to see a workers boat en-route on the horizon.
Deep Blue Sea (1999 film)
1999