Davis is a successful investment banker at a firm founded and run by his father-in-law Phil. His wife, Julia, is driving them when they are struck by another vehicle, killing Julia. Recovering in the hospital, he attempts to purchase some candy from a vending machine which malfunctions. Davis drafts a complaint to the vending machine manufacturer that includes some venting of his personal experiences. This leads to a series of anonymous conversations with a customer service representative, Karen Moreno, in which they end up sharing details of each others life burdens. Karen appears to be the only one he talks to, though tells his stories in an understated and unemotional style. He brings this same unemotional process to work, which he has returned to much earlier than anyone expected. Davis does tell one other person, a fellow commuter train rider that he realizes that he didnt love Julia because he doesnt feel "...sad, or pain, or hurt...". Davis changing emotional state causes him to behave erratically. He notices that he is being followed by a green station wagon. The only thing Davis seems to connect with is trying to understand whats inside things, using a small toolkit to dismantle his household appliances, his work computer, a bathroom stall—eventually telling Phil that he has an urge to dismantle a 120-year-old grandfather clock in Phils office. Karen follows Davis, talking with him on his commuter train without revealing her identity. She mistakenly leaves some identification, and Davis is sufficiently moved to track her down at home, where she lives with her boyfriend and boss, Carl, and her 15-year old troublemaker son, Chris. When Carl goes on a long business trip, Davis bunks at her house, where they develop a deep platonic friendship. Chris initially dislikes Davis, but later grows not only to like him but to help Davis cope, while Davis becomes his mentor in return. Davis joins his in-laws in funding a foundation in Julias name that will award an annual scholarship; during interviews, Davis behaves disrespectfully towards one of the award candidates, and Phil asks him to sign a transfer of his beneficiary rights in Julias $2.6 million life insurance policy, to the scholarship fund in her name. Davis purchases demolition tools from a hardware store (and, later, a bulldozer) and, with Chris assistance, destroys his house. When Davis finds an ultrasound of Julias from the previous year, he is devastated that she failed to inform him. A climactic night impacts everyone. Davis brings Karen to the party for the scholarship winner, greatly troubling Julias parents. A young man makes an inappropriate advance on Karen, and she later laughs out loud when he is introduced as the scholarship winner. Davis announces to everyone that Julia had been pregnant and kept it secret. Julias mother tells him his wife was seeing someone else, and the child was not his and she took her to get an abortion. Returning to Karens house, Davis finds Carl has returned and is reading the letters Davis wrote to Karen. Carl beats on Davis, which pales compared to the homophobic swarm beating that Chris receives after coming out as gay. Davis visits his wifes grave and the green station wagon arrives and a man carrying flowers gets out of the car. He is Michael, the driver of the car that killed Julia. Davis forgives Michael and he experiences flashbacks of his wife and him together and he finally cries, bringing closure. He realizes he loved his wife. Davis has turned a corner. He reconciles with Julias parents, asking Phil to contribute to refurbishing a carousel – destined for demolition – as a memorial for Julia. Davis receives a letter from Chris saying that he is recovering from his beating, his mother has left Carl, and Davis must be at Pier 54 at a particular time, which results in Davis witnessing the demolition of some waterfront buildings across the Hudson River. Chris watches Davis through binoculars from a nearby vantage point.
Demolition (2015 film)
2016