In Cleveland, Ohio, in 1978, four rebellious teenage boys - Hawk, Lex, Trip Verduie, and Jeremiah "Jam" Bruce - run their own Kiss tribute band called "Mystery" while they prepare to see their idols in concert in Detroit, Michigan, the following night. Their hopes, however, are dashed when Jams religiously conservative mother discovers the concert tickets and burns them before having Jam transferred to a Catholic boarding school. Trip manages to win tickets and backstage passes from a radio contest in Detroit and the boys plan to rescue Jam from the boarding school. Disguised as pizza delivery boys, they get Father Phillip McNulty drugged from a pizza topped with hallucinogen mushrooms and set off with Jam for Detroit in Lexs mothers Volvo to pick up the tickets. While on the highway, the boys get into a road rage incident with disco fanatics Kenny and Bobby after Trip accidentally throws a slice of pizza on their windshield. They beat up the disco duo and continue their journey before picking up Christine, who walked out on Kenny due to his behavior. Upon their arrival in Detroit, the boys discover that Trip did not stay on the phone long enough to give the radio station his information, forcing them to give the tickets to the next caller. After discovering that the Volvo has been stolen, the boys split up to find Kiss tickets and meet up in an hour and 45 minutes. Hawk finds a scalper who suggests he enter a male stripping contest to raise money for tickets. He gets drunk and loses the contest, but is offered payment for company by an older woman named Amanda Finch. After being paid, he locates the scalper, only to find out that his tickets are sold out. Trip goes to a local convenience store in hopes of mugging a younger child for his ticket, but is confronted by the boys elder brother Chongo and his friends, who threaten him for $200. He then plans to rob the store with a Stretch Armstrong doll disguised as a gun, but ends up thwarting a real robbery attempt and is rewarded $150. Trip gives the money to Chongos gang, but they steal his wallet in the process. Lex sneaks backstage with the concert loading crew, but is caught and tossed over a fence where he encounters a group of vicious dogs. He wins them over with a frisbee and save Christine and the Volvo from two car thieves at a nearby chop shop. Jam encounters an anti-Kiss rally and is spotted by his mother, who forcibly takes his drumsticks and drags him to a nearby church for confession. There, he is seen by Beth Bumstein, a classmate who is in the process of moving to Ann Arbor. After admitting their feelings for each other, they make love in the confessional booth before parting ways. Jam, imbued with new confidence, goes back to the rally and angrily berates his mother for her domineering ways and her hypocrisy, telling her that constantly shoving her extreme religious views down his throat has done nothing but cause him to despise religion and he demands his drumsticks back. She does so and apologizes to him, remarking to the crowd, "They grow up so fast". When the boys meet up empty-handed, they beat each other up to make it appear that they had been mugged of their tickets. Upon arriving at Cobo Hall, the guards are skeptical, but Trip points out Chongo and his friends, who are just entering, as the culprits. When the guards find Trips wallet with his Kiss Army picture ID and money, they confiscate Chongos tickets along with it and give them to the boys. Astonished and elated, the boys enter the concert hall as Kiss plays the title song of the film. As it ends, Peter Criss throws a drumstick and Jam catches it with joy and excitement.
Detroit Rock City (film)
1999