Deuce Bigalow, an insecure fishtank cleaner (aquarist), is fired for cleaning the tank at a public aquarium in the nude. Deuce is unsuccessful in attracting women, so he attempts to keep himself busy at work. On a house call, he meets an Argentinean male prostitute Antoine Laconte. Antoine is going on a business trip, and so asks Deuce to care for his sick lionfish and protect his home while he is away. Deuce accidentally sets Antoines kitchen on fire when trying to make a grilled cheese sandwich in the toaster, and breaks an expensive fish tank. Fearing Antoine will kill him, Deuce is forced to find a way to pay for the damage. Low-rent pimp T.J. Hicks offers to help Deuce make enough money to buy a new fish tank, and convinces Deuce to take over the absent Antoines role as a gigolo. Deuce decides to make the clients feel better about themselves, since he only desires to have sex with beautiful women. Deuce meets unusual clients but he still manages to get along with them, despite there being no sex involved, by helping them with certain issues in their lives. The clients include Carol, a woman who is severely narcoleptic, Ruth, who has Tourette Syndrome with coprolalia, and therefore is afraid of socializing, Fluisa, an obese woman weighing close to 750 pounds, and Tina, another woman that has a pituitary gland disorder and is extremely tall. Deuces list of clients gradually increases, with each client being satisfied by much more fulfilling measures due to his evasion of sex with them. However, Deuce falls in love with one of his clients, Kate (Arija Bareikis), who has a prosthetic leg. She later breaks up with Deuce when she finds out that he was a prostitute hired by her friends. Meanwhile, Deuce is being stalked by Detective Chuck Fowler, who demands Antoines "black book" of clients and threatens to take Deuce to jail if he does not comply. Deuce eventually helps Fowler please his wife by stripping and erotically dancing for her, and the two make amends. Deuce is still taken into custody on prostitution charges, as Fowler needs someone to bring in and Deuces own refusal to betray his newfound friend, T.J. (whom Fowler described as another person of interest aside Deuce due to his previous acquaintance with Antoine), by turning him in. At the hearing, it is revealed that Deuce never slept with any of the clients except for Kate. Since Deuce gave back the money to Kate and was not paid for sex with her, he is cleared of all charges. Using the money he made, Deuce restores Antoines fish tank, although due to time constraints he is warned that the glass may not be installed properly. Unfortunately, Kates blind roommate accidentally kills the prize fish in Antoines aquarium when she starts the mixer in which the fish was being kept. Deuce buys a replacement fish and returns to Antoines house just in time. Antoine is suspicious, but cannot figure out why. He taps the new aquarium and the glass shatters. Deuce then reveals his prostituting adventures to the bemused and furious Antoine. Enraged, Antoine tries to kill Deuce, and at one point shoots a crossbow bolt at him. The aforementioned overweight client, Fluisa, shows up, comes between the two men, and saves Deuces life (she is not killed because the bolt hits her breasts, between which she has hidden a roast chicken). Antoine is then arrested by Detective Fowler, and Deuce marries Kate. The end sequences continues to follow the epilogue, Deuces father becomes a male prostitute, Fluisa underwent extensive liposuction and is now working as a model in Victorias Secret known as Naomi, Ruth opens up an all girls school for Tourettes, Carol manages to fulfill her dream trip to France, T.J. starts his own reality show dedicated to his experiences as a male prostitute and an incarcerated Antoine marries Tina.
Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo
2005