Bugs is spring cleaning until he notices a whole stampede of animals running away in fear. He manages to stop a turtle, who states that "a Tasmanian Devil is on the loose." Not knowing what a Tasmanian Devil is, Bugs goes back into his hole and looks in his encyclopedia. It describes Taz as a "strong, moiderous beast", with a "ravenous appetite" for eating several animals, though not including rabbits. Taz then appears next to him and interjects by writing "rabbits" in the book, getting Bugs attention. Bugs uses his charm to convince Taz to work together with him to look for groundhogs, before unsuccessfully attempting to bury the devil ("What for you bury me in the cold, cold ground?!?"). Taz then attacks him, but Bugs feigns smelling chicken to escape. Bugs makes liquid chicken from bubble gum and bicarbonate of soda which Taz immediately devours and then starts hiccuping. He creates a giant bubble which Bugs blows into the air, and Taz begins to drift away. Bugs then shoots Taz down with a slingshot, causing him to become entangled in a tree branch. Bugs then makes a pig out of an inflatable raft and lures Taz. Taz swallows it and Bugs pulls the string, causing Taz to inflate into a raft. Bugs then creates a deer out of wood as Taz then chases him up a tree. After Taz chomps down the tree, Bugs diverts his attention to the crudely made deer and tells him to knock it out with a slingshot made with another tree. As Taz pulls down on the slingshot, Bugs saws the tree down, causing Taz to fly off and crash. As Bugs laughs at Tazs misfortune, a fawn appears next to him. Bugs warns the fawn of the devil, not knowing that Taz is right behind him. Bugs attempts to convince him that the fawn is made of straw, but Taz replies: "But youre not!" and starts to chase him. Bugs hides in a tree hole and calls a newspaper company for a single Female Tasmanian Devil. Taz immediately falls in love with her and Bugs pretends to be a minister, pronouncing them "Devil and Devilish". The couple then ride off in the airplane that the She-Devil came on as Bugs bids them farewell.
Devil May Hare
1954