One year after the previous film, while at the Cornys family restaurant, the Heffley family plans to attend Meemaws 90th birthday. However, after Greg rescues his younger brother Manny, who got stuck inside a tube in the play area, Greg ends up in a ball pit with a diaper stuck on his hand. He subsequently becomes infamous after the people around him record him and post the footage on the internet, leading Greg to be dubbed as "Diaper Hands". Later, at the Heffley residence, Greg learns that Player Expo is taking place not very far from Meemaws house in Indianapolis. Gregs gaming star, Mac Digby, will be attending, and Greg hopes to meet him and get in one of his videos so he will gain popularity. He acknowledges that he will have to somehow sneak off from the road trip and attend the Expo without his parents knowledge, however. The Heffley family hits the road, where Greg, Rodrick, Frank, and Mannys devices are immediately confiscated by Susan, who wants the road trip to be "absolutely technology-free." After arriving at a motel, Greg discreetly gets into the Sienna and takes his phone out of the bag Susan had put it in and plans to use it. Later, when Greg and Rodrick are relaxing in the hot tub, Rodrick hears a notification from Gregs phone and discovers his plans to go to Player Expo. Greg discourages Rodrick from telling Susan, saying that they had a rock band video game tournament there that Rodrick could participate in. Liking the idea, Rodrick opts to go with Greg to the Expo. Greg later encounters a family, whom he nicknames "the Beardos" due to the fathers long beard, after being annoyed by a loud noise created by the Beardo siblings, who are playing with a cart, and storms out of the room in his underwear. He confronts them but Brandi, the eldest sibling, rolls the trolley into their Sienna, leaving a huge scratch. Just as Mr. Beardo comes out of his motel room, Brandi blames Greg for the damage and Mr. Beardo goes after him but he escapes. He returns to his hotel room and falls asleep. The next morning, Greg realizes he slept in the Beardos hotel room, but is able to escape. The next day, the Heffleys attend a county fair where Manny wins a pig. Mr. Beardo and his family notices Greg and begins chasing after him but manages to outrun yet again. Back on the road, the Heffleys, unable to take care of the pig, drop it off at the petting zoo, much to Mannys dismay, but not before Greg reroutes the GPS to the Player Expo convention. Checking at the hotel room, Greg and Rodrick sneak out to go to Player Expo. However, after Frank and Susan see their sons on live television, they go to get the boys themselves. Upon Greg sees Mac Digby participating in a video game competition, Greg instructs Rodrick to record him going up on stage with Mac so his popularity will boost, but the attempt fails when Susan storms into the stage and inadvertently reveals that he is Diaper Hands to the public. Susan opens up to Greg and says that all she wanted was a nice road trip that would bring the family closer together, and she accuses Greg of not caring. Infuriated, Greg snaps back at Susan, saying that she doesnt care about what he loves, which is why he had to sneak out to the Expo in the first place. Hurt by her sons words, Susan hands her phone to Greg because she doesnt care anymore. After encountering the Beardos and other obstacles on the road, the Heffleys celebrate happily at Meemaws. Returning home, Manny manages to get the pig back. At the end, Greg explains that although the road trip wasnt perfect, he still wouldnt change a thing. He says that Manny was allowed to keep his pig as a pet, Rodrick was able to get a Toyota Sienna 2018 Limited AWD, and Dad was able to explain having time off from work to bond with family. Greg expresses excitement for where theyll be going next year, but Susan steps in to say they will be flying. In a mid-credits scene, two girls take selfies with Greg, who they recognize as Diaper Hands.
Diary of a Wimpy Kid: The Long Haul (film)
2017