The Heffley family attends a pool party at the local pool, where the family meets a former trouble-making friend of Rodrick who is now a model student after attending a military school known as Spag Union. Gregs father Frank thinks about enrolling Greg there. Gregs summer starts off badly: Frank bans video games in anger at Gregs laziness, and his mother Susan starts a book club for all the boys in the neighborhood, but she does not see their books as real literature. Frank is also getting jealous of the neighbors athletic kids, and after his video game ban, Susan forces Frank and Greg to bond with each other: their bonding activities end in disaster. A few weeks later, Gregs best friend, Rowley Jefferson, takes Greg to the local country club, where his family are members of. Greg enjoys the lifestyle there and the fact that his crush, Holly Hills, teaches tennis there and he doesnt have to go to the book club. Greg returns home to learn that Frank signed him up for an unpaid summer internship at his work without his consent, and Greg lies about having a job at the country club. Frank and Susan are delighted, and give him a starter cell phone, a Ladybug, which only allows him to call home or 911. Later, Rowley invites Greg on a family trip to their beach house near the Boardwalk, but Greg finds the lifestyle banal and attempts to escape. He tries to call home using his Ladybug phone, but the phone rejects the call, and after he inadvertently calls 911, the police arrive, almost leading to the arrest of Rowleys father, who sends home Greg in disgust. Rowley doesnt allow Greg to tag along with him to the country club because of the beach house incident, but Greg sneaks in, meets up with Holly and her sister Heather and manages to get Löded Diper a gig at Heathers sweet sixteen, much to Rodricks delight. Rowley and Greg quickly make up, but Rowley is unable to attend the club, forcing Greg to sneak in. One morning, Frank drops Greg off, only to be confronted by Rowleys father: Greg has built up a $260 fruit smoothie bill from his time at the country club. When Frank attempts to explain the situation, the clerk informs him that the club does not employ minors, and Greg is exposed. As a result, when he receives a Spag Union disc in the mail, he fears he will be sent there. Rodrick informs Greg that the "Wilderness Weekend" could be a way to avoid Spag Union. Their troop proves weak compared to Franks boss, Stans, troop. After a Camp story and Greg continues to mess things up Frank tells him that everyone messes up, after the boys overhear Stan and his troop insulting Frank, Greg attempts to set up a plan for revenge by using traps, and finds out that Stans troop has been using electric and other appliances including pre-cooked meals and portable TVs rather than actually camping. Stan arrives at the tent, Greg manages to escape while Stan accidentally throws his own tent into the campfire, and Greg admits he was responsible but his friends tell him that he did it to defend his honor. Frank, having lost his respect for Stan, then confronts him with the electronic conveniences (although he was jealous of Stan throughout the movie), and Stan runs into Gregs trap, leaving him humiliated. Frank reveals that he never liked camping anyway, and decides not to send Greg to Spag Union, much to Gregs surprise and delight. Frank gives Greg advice about learning from mistakes and taking responsibilities. The two discover they are much alike than they realize. At Heathers Sweet 16 birthday party a few days later, Löded Diper performs a hard rock version of "Baby" by Justin Bieber and Ludacris, during an attempt to win over Heather. However, Rodrick accidentally knocks over a huge ice sculpture of Heather, which results in her losing her temper and accidentally smashing a chocolate fountain with a microphone stand, splashing chocolate all over her, and the party ends in disaster. Holly then implies that she likes Greg by holding his hand, and in the final scene, Greg, Holly, and Rowley all hang out together at the local pool. Greg describes that his summer did not go the way he expected, but had positive circumstances.
Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog Days (film)
2012