The book begins on January 1, with Greg talking about his familys New Years resolutions. Life becomes more difficult for Greg and his best friend Rowley when their school bus route is "rezoned" to the Whirley Street neighborhood, so they have to walk to and from school. Greg also deals with being compared to his father Franks bosss sons. After conflicts over Greg wanting to stay inside and watch TV on Saturdays and Frank stealing his school snacks, Frank makes him sign up for intramural soccer after an incident at the church on Easter. At first, he rides the bench but becomes the starting goalie when the main goalie is injured. He takes a break to pick dandelions on the field, which ultimately costs his team the game. Frank is embarrassed by this when his boss shows it to him in the paper. After this, Frank runs into a neighborhood troublemaker named Lenwood who has apparently reformed after going to military school. Impressed with his former enemys turnaround, he decides to sign Greg up for a summer program at a place called Spag Union Military School, hoping Greg will change for the better. To impress his dad and thereby avoid military school, Greg decides to join the Boy Scouts. However, he is sick and misses their camping trip, which Frank has to go to anyway (hes a chaperone) and has a terrible time. Later, when Greg, Frank, and Rodrick have a camping "do-over", they end up at a hotel after heavy rain, where Rodrick locks Greg out of their room in his underwear. After this, Greg becomes more resigned to his military school fate, especially after his attempts to make a good impression on a girl named Holly Hills in his class. But on what he thinks is his only day of summer vacation, Greg ends up inadvertently saving Frank from making a fool of himself at their neighbors birthday party. The next day, his dad reconsiders his decision to send Greg to Spag Union, and the book ends with Greg looking forward to his summer vacation.
Diary of a Wimpy Kid: The Last Straw
2012