Following the funeral of Simon Cordier (Vincent Price), a French magistrate and amateur sculptor, his secret diary is read out by Simons pastor friend to a group of people gathered around the table, Simons servants, and a police captain. The diary reveals that Simon has come into contact with a malevolent entity. The invisible yet corporeal being, called a horla is capable of limited psychokinesis and complete mind control. It implied that Cordiers particular horla is one of a whole race of evil beings which devote themselves to driving humans insane. Cordier first interacts with the horla when he meets a prisoner whom the entity drove to murder four people. The horla possesses the inmate and attempts to kill Cordier, who in self-defense accidentally kills the man. The magistrate inherits the prisoners troubles as the horla turns its hauntings toward him. As the horla begins to destroy Cordiers life, he fears he is going mad and seeks help from an alienist, who suggests he take a hobby. Cordier chooses to pick up his old interest in sculpture, meeting a model along the way. The model, Odette Malotte, is already married, but claims to love Cordier and he pledges his love to her in turn. The horla insists the model is not the charming jewel that Cordier sees, but instead a conniving gold-digger, and compels Cordier to treat her as such. This sets up a conflict in Cordier, that he might not be the astute judge of character that his title indicates. In an episode of insanity, Cordier murders Odette with a knife. Her decapitated body is found in the river, but her husband (not Cordier) is blamed for the crime. As his and others lives are put in jeopardy, he becomes convinced of the horlas existence and decides drastic measures are needed to end its evil. He lures the horla into his house at night. When his presence is felt, Simon hurls an oil lamp towards the curtains, setting the house ablaze. Simon succeeds in destroying the horla, but not without sacrificing himself as the house burns in flames. The film concludes with the people seated round the table after reading Simons diary. Some believe Simon was mad and that the horla doesnt exist, others are unsure and that the Horla might have existed. The priests opinion is that wherever evil exists, the horla exists.
Diary of a Madman (film)
1963