The Heffley family attends a party at a roller rink, where Greg Heffley reunites with his best friend Rowley Jefferson, meets a new girl at school named Holly Hills who Greg instantly has a crush on, and reveals he passed on the Cheese Touch. During the party, his older brother Rodrick embarrasses Greg by suggesting that he ask Holly to skate with him and then interfering with Couples Skate by persuading a crowd of violent teenagers to enter the rink, along with replacing "Always" by Atlantic Starr with a heavy metal song. This prompts Gregs parents (who misunderstand this) to speak to Greg on the rinks public address system and then carry him off the rink. Greg, extremely angry with Rodrick for humiliating him, tries to tackle him, but he misses and in turn, lands in Taylor Pringles birthday cake. She and her friends then proceed to beat up Greg as the intro starts. Rodrick and Gregs mother, Susan Heffley, makes an effort to have them bond by going in their bedroom and doing some things together by using her methods called "Mom Bucks", but it makes things worse as Rodrick cheats her system. At school, the teacher treats Greg as a bad kid and immediately dislike Greg because Gregs related to Rodrick much to Gregs dismay. After school, a school talent show is advertised on TV; in which Rowley sees it as an opportunity to perform magic, and Rodrick sees it as a big break for his band, Löded Diper. However, Greg rejects the idea of doing the magic. At church, Greg and Rodrick are grounded after a scuffle, causing Susan to get upset about what others think of her, and her familys reputation being ruined; after which, they are forbidden to go to the water park, nor inviting people over, and told that they must bond. However, Rodrick does the opposite, and throws a party. Though, this party causes Rodrick to be more friendly and open towards Greg. The next morning, Susan calls and says that they will be home in one hour. Rodrick and Greg hastily erase all the evidence, but find out that the bathroom door is painted on with a graffiti; therefore, they replace the door, but Greg finds out that the replacement door doesnt have a lock like the last door. Rodrick convinces Greg to deny everything as their parents arrive. Susan however, later slowly began to discovers the difference and questions the two brothers. Though Rodrick denies this, Greg nearly reveals the truth and convinces Susan to not to punish Rodrick. Convinced that Greg didnt reveal about the party, Rodrick starts bonding with him as a gesture of gratitude. One night, they are finally exposed when their father Frank Heffley comes across photos of the party and the Heffleys reputation is ruined again, and no one will support Susans articles about siblings bonding anymore. Greg and Rodrick both get grounded, which includes Rodrick not being allowed to participate in the school talent show. Their punishment is to stay at the retirement home with their Grandpa is staying, in which Greg finds out that Holly is visiting her grandmother. Holly tells Greg that she can relate to Greg about siblings giving her a hard time; however, siblings will eventually get over it. Holly also reveals she is more patient and mature than her siblings. The next day, to humiliate Greg, Rodrick reads and steals Gregs diary — in which Greg has written about his crush on Holly — and attempts to hand it over to Holly. Greg, with only his underwear on, chases after Rodrick and takes the diary back, but he accidentally hides in the womens restroom and when Greg returns, Rodrick reveals to Greg that he tapes the whole incident. At the talent show a few nights later, Rodrick finds out that he has been booted from the band by Bill Walter, a band member who recently joined; Rowley isnt able to perform his magic tricks due to his partner having stage fright. Greg, with a change of heart, helps Rowley and Rodrick out by participating in Rowleys magic act in return for allowing Rodrick to perform his band act. The next morning, Rodrick gives Greg the tape from the retirement home in return for making it possible for him to participate, symbolizing that they are not only brothers, but also friends. In a mid-credits scene, Greg and Rowley have just finished posting the video that Frank shot of Rodricks music act with Susan dancing on YouTube, and it goes viral, making Greg and Rowley an internet sensation. However, an enraged Rodrick, having seen the video, shouts at Greg off-screen, that he is "so dead."
Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Rodrick Rules (film)
2012