Helen (Kimberly Elise) and Charles McCarter (Steve Harris) have money, success, and a fine home. Their lives were perfect – on the surface. Charles, an attorney, is distant, verbally abusive, and has been having multiple affairs while Helen is unemployed, bored at home, and desperately trying to make her marriage work. On their 18th wedding anniversary, Helen finds all her belongings in a U-Haul, as Charles is kicking her out for Brenda (Lisa Marcos), his young mistress and the mother of his two sons. Helen kicks the driver, Orlando (Shemar Moore), out of the truck and visits her intimidating grandmother, Madea. Madea (Tyler Perry) takes Helen in and helps her get back on her feet, to the dismay of Madeas brother, Joe (also Tyler Perry). Joes son, Brian (also Tyler Perry), acts as Madea and Helens attorney after Charles and Brenda catch the pair breaking into and vandalizing Charles mansion. Because Madea is a repeat offender, the judge places her under house arrest and sets a $5,000 property or cash bond for Helen. Brian kicks his addict wife, Debrah (Tamara Taylor), out of their home. This causes him to have a strained relationship with his daughter, Tiffany (Tiffany Evans), who wants to join the church choir. Fearing that Tiffany will turn to drugs like her mother, Brian does not allow her until Madea convinces him otherwise, encouraging him to also fix his relationship with Debrah. Helen cultivates a relationship with Orlando. Meanwhile, career criminal Jamison Milton Jackson (Gary Sturgis) asks Charles to be his defense attorney in his trial for shooting an undercover cop during a drug deal and to possibly bribe the judge in his favor. This forces the revelation that Charles received most of his money through drug deals and buying off judges. In court for divorce, Helen lets Charles keep all the money and property, provided he pay Brians attorney fees. She also wants Charles to pay for her mother, Myrtles (Cicely Tyson) stay in the nursing home since he made her place her there. Charles agrees to both terms. In the shooting case, despite Charles efforts, the jury finds Jamison guilty. As Jamison is being led out of the courtroom, he snatches the bailiffs gun and shoots Charles in the back for failing to get him acquitted. Orlando proposes to Helen, but before she can respond, she sees the shooting on the news and goes to the hospital with Brian. They run into Brenda. The doctor says Charles might be paralyzed for life and asks if they should resuscitate him if things deteriorate. Brenda chooses to let Charles die, but Helen, still Charles legal wife, tells the doctor to do everything they can for him. Charles recovers, returns home with Helen, and resumes his verbal abuse of her. But Helen takes the opportunity to retaliate for years of neglect and verbal and emotional abuse. Brenda is revealed to have emptied Charles bank account during his hospitalization and left with the boys. Their maid, Christina, has left as well because Charles has no money to pay her. In addition, all of Charles friends and associates have turned their backs on him now that he has been left penniless. Helen and Orlando argue when he learns she has moved back in with Charles to look after him. He leaves in anger. Charles realizes his mistakes and apologizes to Helen, realizing that she was the only one who showed any true care for him. He becomes a kinder man, while she helps him recover. He regains his ability to walk one day in church, where Debrah, now clean and sober, reconciles with Brian. Charles hopes to start over with Helen, but during a family dinner, she gives him her wedding ring and signed divorce papers and tells him she will always be his friend. She finds Orlando, asks him to propose again, and accepts when he does.
Diary of a Mad Black Woman (film)
2006