Ruthless killer Steve Michel is known to the public as "The Claw" for his way of killing his victims with his prosthetic hook. After his accomplices Ryan and Taylor have broken in and stolen furs from the Flawless Furs warehouse, Steve kills the guard with his hook. When the police arrive at the crime scene in the shape of Detective Dick Tracy, he talks to Humphries, who is the owner of the store; Peter Premium, who is a representative for the insurance company; and a man named Cudd, who is the insurance investigator. The insurance company only has twenty-four hours to find the stolen goods, or they have to reimburse the fur company. Tracy and his semi-competent assistant Patton examine the dead body at the morgue and find a note on it stating that there were three perpetrators performing the hit against the warehouse. It also mentions that they used a truck with the name "Daisy" on it. Unfortunately, the three perpetrators disguise the truck before Tracy can find it, and the lead is a dead end. The robbers soon leave their hideout in a local junkyard and go to a nearby bar to phone their boss and get new instructions. As they speak with the boss on the phone, their conversation is overheard by an informant, a blind beggar called Sightless, who goes to pass the information on. Sightless is sloppy and noisy when eavesdropping, and is nearly caught by The Claw. Still, he manages to escape the bar. Sightless goes directly to Dick Tracy, but is stopped at the door by Tracys friend, Vitamin Flintheart. Vitamin believes the beggar is up to no good, and denies him entrance to the house. After listening to Sightless message, Vitamin gets rid of him. Still, he passes the message on to Tracy later, and Tracy and Patton manage to find the fence that the three robbers were meeting, Longshot Lillie. Lillie is taken into custody and questioned, but is unable to identify the robbers. At the same time The Claw finds Sightless apartment and kills the blind man with his hook. Soon after Tracy and Patton arrives, and The Claw flees the scene. Patton pursues the killer, fires a shot and wounds him, but still, The Claw manages to escape. Tracy notices that The Claw had tried to make a phone call from Sightless phone, and can identify the first digits from hook scratches on the phone dial. He sends Patton to find the rest of the phone number. Tracy himself goes to the insurance company and accuses them of stealing the furs from the warehouse. They protest against the charges when Patton arrives and tells them that the number leads to the store owner Humphries. Humphries plan was all along to sell back the furs to the insurance company after the twenty-four hours had passed and collect the penalty fee stated in the policy. He calls the robbers at the same bar as before, instructing them to tell the insurance company to come to the bar with $50,000. Feeling guilty about sending Sightless off to a certain death before, Vitamin goes to the bar to find the killer, pretending to be a blind beggar himself. Sam and Fred make an attempt to steal the money for themselves, but The Claw, wounded but still capable of fighting, manages to kill them both. The killings are witnessed by Vitamin, who also hears The Claw talk on the phone to Humphries, telling him the furs whereabouts. Meanwhile, Patton and Cudd have gone to Humphries and are watching him as he talks to The Claw. Humphries tells The Claw over the phone about his predicament, and The Claw becomes suspicious towards Vitamin and his blind beggar performance. Tracy arrives to the bar just in time to save his friend from The Claw, and there is a chase back down to the junkyard. Tracy chases The Claw to a high-voltage generator, and the killer is killed by an electric shock when he touches a wire with his hook.
Dick Tracy's Dilemma
1947