On Christmas Eve, NYPD detective John McClane arrives in Los Angeles, intending to reconcile with his estranged wife, Holly, at the Christmas party of her employer, the Nakatomi corporation. McClane is driven to the party by Argyle, an airport limousine driver. While McClane changes clothes, the party is disrupted by the arrival of a German terrorist, Hans Gruber, and his heavily armed team: Karl, Tony, Franco, Theo, Alexander, Marco, Kristoff, Eddie, Uli, Heinrich, Fritz, and James. The group seizes the tower and secures those inside as hostages except for McClane, who slips away, and Argyle, who gets trapped in the garage. Gruber interrogates Nakatomi executive Joseph Takagi for the code to the buildings vault and reveals that he plans to steal $640 million in bearer bonds, with terrorism merely a distraction. Takagi refuses to cooperate and is murdered by Gruber. McClane secretly watches, but accidentally gives himself away and escapes. He sets off a fire alarm in an attempt to alert authorities, so Gruber sends Tony to investigate. McClane kills Tony, pocketing his weapon and radio, using it to contact the LAPD. As Sgt. Al Powell is sent to investigate, Gruber sends Heinrich and Marco to stop McClane, who kills them both. Powell arrives and is greeted by Eddie, posing as a concierge. Finding nothing unusual, Powell prepares to leave, but McClane drops Marcos corpse onto his patrol car to gain his attention. Powell summons the LAPD, who lay siege to the building. McClane steals Heinrichs bag containing C-4 explosives and detonators. James and Alexander use anti-tank missiles to disable a SWAT armored car, but McClane drops C-4 into the elevator shaft, blowing up their floor and killing them. Hollys coworker, Harry Ellis, attempts to mediate between Hans and McClane for the return of the detonators. McClane refuses, so Gruber kills Ellis. While checking explosives attached to the roof, Gruber is confronted by McClane; Gruber passes himself off as an escaped hostage. McClane offers him a gun and Gruber attempts to shoot McClane, but the gun is empty. Karl, Franco, and Fritz arrive; McClane kills Fritz and Franco, but is forced to flee, abandoning the detonators. FBI agents take command of the siege, ordering the buildings power shut off. This, as Gruber anticipated, disables the vaults final lock. Gruber demands a helicopter on the rooftop for transport, but the FBI prepare to double-cross him by sending helicopter gunships. McClane discovers that Gruber intends to detonate the explosives on the roof, faking the deaths of his team so they can escape with the bearer bonds. Gruber sees a news report by intrusive reporter Richard Thornburg that features McClanes children and, from a desk photo, deduces that McClane is Hollys husband. The criminals order the hostages to the roof, but Gruber takes Holly with him to use against McClane. McClane defeats Karl in a fight, kills Uli, and sends the hostages downstairs before the explosives detonate, destroying the roof and the FBI helicopter. Theo retrieves their getaway vehicle, but is knocked unconscious by Argyle. A weary McClane finds Holly with Gruber and his remaining men, and knocks Kristoff unconscious. McClane surrenders his machine gun to spare Holly, but distracts Gruber and Eddie, allowing him to grab a concealed pistol taped to his back. McClane shoots Gruber and kills Eddie; Gruber crashes through a window but grabs onto Hollys wrist. McClane unclasps Hollys wristwatch and Gruber falls to his death. Outside, McClane and Holly meet Powell. Karl emerges and attempts to shoot McClane, but is shot dead by Powell. Argyle crashes through the parking garage door in the limo. Thornburg arrives and attempts to interview McClane, but Holly punches him, and McClane and Holly are driven away by Argyle.
Die Hard
1995