A mysterious killer (Andrew Robinson) uses a high precision rifle to kill a girl in a hotel rooftop swimming pool. Police arrive at the crime scene, where SFPD Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) finds a blackmail note signed "Scorpio" ordering the city to pay $100,000 or the culprit will continue to kill. The mayor (John Vernon) asks police officers what is being done to track the killer. During lunch, Inspector Callahan foils a bank robbery. He kills two of the robbers and wounds a third. Confronting the wounded robber, Callahan delivers the films iconic line:  I know what you’re thinking: Did he fire six shots or only five? Well, to tell you the truth, in all this excitement, I’ve kinda lost track myself. But being this is a .44 Magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world, and would blow your head clean off, you’ve got to ask yourself one question: Do I feel lucky? Well, do you, punk?  After the robber surrenders, he tells Callahan that he must know if the gun was still loaded. Callahan pulls the trigger with the weapon pointed directly at the robber, and laughs as it is revealed to be empty. Callahan is assigned a new partner, Chico Gonzalez (Reni Santoni), whom he believes to be an inexperienced rookie. Scorpio is staking out potential victims near a public park, but is spotted by a police helicopter and runs away. Callahan and his new partner believe they see him that night on the streets, but in the course of tracing him to his home, Callahan looks into a window and briefly watches a sexual encounter before being caught by neighbors who try to beat him up as a peeping Tom, until Chico interferes. Based on Scorpios communications, the city decides he will next try to kill a Catholic priest. They set up a stake-out, and set Callahan and Gonzalez on another rooftop from which they can see the building from which they believe Scorpio will strike. Callahan gets again distracted watching a sexual encounter. Scorpio arrives and there is a shootout, in which a policeman disguised as a priest is killed. Scorpio delivers a second ransom demand to the police, stating he has now kidnapped a teenage girl who he says will die if his demands are not met. Callahan is assigned to deliver a case full of money. He waits near a pier as directed by Scorpio who calls Callahan on a nearby pay phone, giving him instructions to go to another location in the city with another payphone, where he will call again. During his trip through the city, Callahan is confronted by would-be robbers and a young man seeking gay sex. Finally, Callahan encounters Scorpio at the Mount Davidson cross. Scorpio then beats Callahan into submission before telling him that he intends to let the girl die. Gonzalez has been following them and there is a shootout between his partner and Scorpio, in which the former is wounded. After being stabbed in the leg with a knife by Callahan, Scorpio escapes without the money and reports to a hospital. The police learn of Scorpios hospital visit, and a doctor recalls having met Scorpio previously and remembers he lives in a room at Kezar Stadium where he also works. Callahan finds Scorpio there. In a chase across the stadium field, Callahan first shoots Scorpio, and then tortures him by standing on his wounded leg demanding to know where the girl is being held. Scorpio confesses, but by then, it is too late as the girl is ultimately found dead. The district attorney (Josef Sommer) tells Callahan that Scorpios rights have been violated, and they cannot hold him, but must let him go. Callahan is outraged, but continues to shadow Scorpio on his own time. Scorpio pays a man $200 to beat him severely, then reports to a hospital claiming he is a victim of police brutality. Harrys new partner decides to quit the police force. Scorpio robs a liquor store and acquires a handgun. He then hijacks a school bus and contacts the police with yet another ransom demand for money and a flight out of the Santa Rosa airport. Callahan manages to jump onto the roof of the hijacked bus from an overpass. After Callahan forces Scorpio off the bus, the latter flees to a nearby quarry and holds a boy at gunpoint. Having shot Scorpio through the shoulder, Callahan reprises his line about losing count of his shots. Unlike the earlier encounter, Callahan does have one remaining bullet, with which he kills Scorpio when the latter goes for his gun. Callahan takes out his inspectors badge and throws it into the water before walking away.
Dirty Harry
1988