Bob Garvin, a technology company founder, plans to retire when his company merges with a larger company. Production line manager Tom Sanders expects to be promoted to run the CD-ROM division. Instead, Meredith Johnson, a former girlfriend, is promoted to the post. Meredith calls Tom into her office to discuss some operations, and forces herself onto him. He initially reciprocates, but then rebuffs her. Meredith screams a threat to make him pay for spurning her. The next day, Tom discovers that Meredith has filed a sexual harassment complaint against him with legal counsel Philip Blackburn. To save the merger from a scandal, DigiCom officials demand that Tom accept reassignment to another location. If Tom does this, he will lose his stock options in the new company. Furthermore, the reassignment will ruin his career and leave him jobless as the other location is scheduled for sale after the merger. Tom receives an e-mail from someone identified only as "A Friend." It directs him to Seattle attorney Catherine Alvarez, who specializes in sexual harassment cases. Tom decides to sue DigiCom, alleging that Meredith is the one who harassed him. The initial mediation goes badly for Tom as Meredith blames him. Garvin proposes that if Tom drops the matter, he will not have to transfer. This causes Tom to suspect that Merediths accusations have a vulnerability. Tom remembers misdialing a number on his cell phone at the time of his meeting and Meredith throwing his phone (but not hanging up), thus inadvertently creating a recording on a colleagues voicemail of the entire encounter. Tom plays the recording at the next meeting and discredits Meredith. DigiCom agrees to a settlement calling for Meredith to be quietly eased out after the merger closes. As Tom is celebrating his apparent victory, he receives another e-mail from "A Friend" warning that all is not what it seems. Tom overhears Meredith talking to Blackburn that even if they slipped him through the harassment accusation, theyll make him look incompetent at next mornings merger conference. If the problems with the CD-ROMs are shown as coming from the production line, which is under Toms responsibility, he can be fired for cause. Tom attempts look for clues in the company database regarding the talk he overheard. But his access privileges have been revoked. He remembers that the merging companys executives have a DigiCom virtual reality demonstration machine in a hotel room with access to company databases. He breaks in to use it, but as he gets into DigiComs files, he sees Meredith is already deleting them. Unexpectedly, Tom receives a call from a Malaysian colleague who can fax copies of incriminating memos and he gets them. They show that Meredith was conspiring with the head of operations in Malaysia, to change the plant and product specifications Tom has implemented for sabotaging Toms career. When Tom makes his presentation at the conference and Meredith brings up the production problems, he shows the memos and a video exposing her direct involvement in causing defects with the hardware. Meredith says that Tom is mounting a last-ditch effort to take revenge on her. However, later Meredith discloses to Tom that she is a victim of Garvin and Blackburns office politics. Garvin fires incompetent Meredith and declares Stephanie Kaplan as the new vice president. Despite wishing for the position himself, Tom is pleased that his colleague has been promoted. Tom knows through Stephanies son, Spencer, that they sent the mails as "A Friend" or Arthur Friend from a professors account to support him through the ordeal. Satisfied, Tom returns to his old technical position.
Disclosure (film)
1994