In 1982, an alien ship hovers over Johannesburg. When investigation teams enter, they discover a population of malnourished extraterrestrials, thereafter nicknamed "prawns". The South African government confines the aliens to District 9, a government camp. In 2010, following unrest between the aliens and locals, the government hires private military company Multinational United (MNU) to relocate the aliens to a new camp. Piet Smit, an MNU executive, appoints Wikus van de Merwe, a nebbish Afrikaner bureaucrat, to lead the relocation. The relocation uses bribes of cat food, which is addictive for the aliens. Three aliens — Christopher Johnson, his son, and a friend — are seen scavenging pieces of alien technology, from which they finish distilling a fluid which they collect in a small canister. During an inspection, Wikus discovers and confiscates the canister from the shack of Christophers friend, but accidentally sprays some of the fluid onto his own face, which causes him to have a momentary seizure. Christophers friend is subsequently killed by Koobus Venter, a mercenary soldier employed by MNU. Wikus body tissue begins to mutate into alien tissue. He is detained and transported to MNU headquarters for brutal experimentation, where researchers and officials discover that his chimeric DNA grants him the ability to use his transformed arm to wield alien weapons. Wikus overpowers them and escapes the facility. Venter and his men hunt Wikus down, while a smear story is broadcast, one that reaches his wife, Tania, claiming that Wikus is a wanted fugitive who has contracted a sexually transmitted disease from anal intercourse with prawns. Wikus finds refuge in District 9 and learns that Christopher is hiding the command module of their spacecraft and the canisters fluid would be able to reactivate the command module and the dormant mothership. He claims he can reverse Wikus mutation in the mothership. To recover the canister from MNU headquarters, Wikus obtains alien weapons from District 9 Nigerian arms dealer Obesandjo and his gang. They use these to assault the headquarters, retrieve the canister, and flee to District 9. Christopher decides to return to his home planet for help and explains that he cannot undo Wikus mutation until he returns in three years. Enraged, Wikus knocks Christopher out and attempts to fly the command module to the mothership, but is almost immediately shot down by Venter and his men. They capture Wikus and Christopher, but Obesandjos gang attacks the convoy and seize Wikus. Christophers son activates the mothership and an alien mechanized battle suit in Obesandjos base, using it to kill Obesandjo and his men. Wikus uses the suit to rescue Christopher, who promises to return in three years with a cure for Wikus. Wikus kills all the attacking soldiers before Venter cripples the suit; ejecting Wikus. As he corners a heavily injured Wikus, a group of aliens protect Wikus by killing Venter. The command module is lifted into the mothership and Christopher and his son leave Earth. A series of news broadcasts are shown about the potential return of the spacecraft and Wikus whereabouts. MNUs illegal experiments are exposed and District 9 is demolished. Tania finds a metal flower on her doorstep, giving her hope that Wikus is still alive. The final scene shows a fully transformed Wikus in a junkyard, crafting a similar flower.
District 9
2009