Troubled by the death of his father (Matt Craven) in an auto accident, Kale Brecht (Shia LaBeouf) attacks his Spanish teacher (Rene Rivera) when the teacher invokes his father while reprimanding him. For the assault, he is sentenced by a sympathetic judge to three months under house arrest with an ankle monitor and a proximity sensor. Detective Parker (Viola Davis) explains the system to Kale and his mother Julie (Carrie-Ann Moss). Initially, the teen just plays video games, but he is soon grounded by Julie and loses his access to the iTunes Music Store, Xbox Live, and his television. Kales boredom leads him to watch the neighborhood, including the two neighbor boys who play pranks on him, his next-door neighbor Robert Turner (David Morse), and Ashley Carlson (Sarah Roemer), the new girl in town. One night, Kale becomes suspicious of Robert Turner, who returns home in a 1967 Ford Mustang with a dented fender that matches the description given on a news report of a serial killer at large. Kales best friend Ronnie (Aaron Yoo) visits to spy on Ashley and, when they accidentally alert her to their hijinks, the curious girl joins them in spying on Turner. Kale observes a young woman Turner had picked up from a nightclub as she flees the house in a panic but later appears to leave in her car. Ashley throws a party and teases Kale, knowing he is watching. He plays non-party music loudly to needle her, and Ashley comes over to stop it. But the two flirt and start to make out, distracting each other while blood splatters on Turners windows. Later, as Kale and Ashley watch, Turner drags a heavy bag to his garage. Kale gets Ashley to follow Turner, but he confronts her in her car with a calm, but threatening manner. Meanwhile, Ronnie successfully breaks into Turners garage with a camera but gets trapped when the garage door closes. Kale leaves to rescue him but alerts the police upon leaving his property with the ankle monitor. The police come and search the garage but show Kale the bag contains a roadkill deer. Julie then goes across the street to talk to Turner to ask him not to press charges, while Ronnie reveals that he has escaped from Turners house. When Kale watches the tape Ronnie made in Turners house, he notices a dead body in plastic in a vent. Next door, Turner takes Julie captive and enters Kales house, knocking out Ronnie and binding and gagging Kale. The killer reveals his plan to frame Kale for the murders of Ronnie and Julie and make it appear Kale then committed suicide. When Ashley arrives, interrupting the plan, the two teens barricade themselves in a room, where Ashley unties Kale, and they flee out a window. Kales ankle monitor again alerts the police, and he enters Turners home to search for his mother. In a hidden room, Kale finds ample evidence of Turners previous murders. The officer who monitors Kale arrives at the scene but is killed by Turner. Kale stumbles upon the decaying remains of murder victims and finds his mother bound and gagged. Turner appears and, in the ensuing confrontation, Kale fatally stabs him with a pair of gardening shears. In the aftermath, Kale is shown having his ankle bracelet removed by the authorities for good behavior, getting back at the two boys from earlier pranks and making out with Ashley on his sofa, while Ronnie is playfully video taping them.
Disturbia (film)
2007