The film opens in 1937 Louisiana with four little girls out in the woods at night, each wearing a home-made headdress. The leader, Viviane Abbott (Caitlin Wachs), initiates them into a secret order she dubs the "Ya-Ya Sisterhood," which they seal by cutting their palms and taking a blood oath of undying loyalty. The film then moves to New York City in the 1990s, where Vivianes eldest daughter, playwright Siddalee Walker (Sandra Bullock), while overseeing production of her newest release, gives an interview with a reporter from Time, mentioning her unhappy childhood as a major source of inspiration for her work. The reporter sensationalizes Siddas complaint, implying abuse and deep, dark family secrets. Vivi (Ellen Burstyn) reads the article and becomes extremely upset. She calls Sidda, but instead of speaking can only bang the phone on the table while crying that she is dead to her. Sidda, equally frustrated by her mothers behavior, also bangs her phone against the counter after Vivi has hung up on her. Much to the frustration of her fiancé, Connor McGill (Angus Macfadyen), Sidda takes her mothers behavior as a declaration of all-out war. Vivi takes down all the pictures of Sidda in her house, cuts her face out of family pictures, and mails the defaced pictures to Sidda, along with a copy of her will with Siddas name marked out. Sidda in turn sends Vivi a newly printed wedding invitation with the time and place cut out, plus torn-up tickets to her play. When the Ya-Ya Sisters learn of Vivis war, they decide to take matters into their own hands to resolve it. Led by Caroline Eliza "Caro" Benett (Maggie Smith), Aimee Malissa "Teensy" Whitman (Fionnula Flanagan), and Denise Rose "Necie" Kelleher (Shirley Knight) visit Sidda in New York, then drug her, kidnap her, and take her back to Louisiana. There they show her a scrapbook album her mother has kept, titled Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood, which they believe they must reveal to Sidda. They explain to Sidda her mothers experiences, depicted in flashbacks of their childhood, then as young women and mothers, including Siddas own childhood: Vivi (Ashley Judd), Teensy (Jacqueline McKenzie), Caro (Katy Selverstone), Necie (Kiersten Warren). Troubles include: Vivi encountering racism as a child at Teensys uncle and aunts house; a bitter, jealous mother (Cherry Jones) who falsely accuses her of incest with her father, and the loss of her true love, Teensys older brother Jack (Matthew Settle) who is killed in World War II. She settles for an unhappy marriage with Shepherd James "Shep" Walker (David Lee Smith/James Garner), a good and faithful man who loves her, despite the abuse she heaps on him because he isnt Jack. This is all well and good to Sidda, but doesnt change her opinion of her mother as a self-centered person unable to deal with her troubles, which she has unfairly inflicted on Sidda to the point of needing psychotherapy. Meanwhile, she tells Connor not to send out the wedding invitations, which troubles him enough to come down to Louisiana to find her. The Sisters then realize that Sidda must be told Vivis deepest, darkest secret in order to understand. They try to persuade Vivi that she must do this herself, but she doesnt have the courage to tell her daughter, so they do it for her with Siddas father present. In the meantime, Vivi tells Connor herself. The secret is that Vivi eventually had a nervous breakdown, and brutally beat Sidda and her siblings. What the children never knew was that Vivi had taken an overdose of Dexamyl, (an amphetamine used as an antidepressant), and had to be hospitalized. Sidda finally understands the depth of her mothers suffering, and that she didnt have to waste money on therapy trying to find out why it was her fault. She also recalls a happy memory of her mother: when Sidda missed out on an airplane ride because she was too scared but then changed her mind, Vivi borrowed money to get the pilot to give one more ride, which she took with Sidda. Vivi and Sidda reconcile, and Sidda decides that she wants to marry Connor in Louisiana. Vivi makes her daughter a Ya-Ya headdress, and the Sisters induct her into the order.
Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood (film)
2002