The Stooges are the Wrong brothers (a parody of the Wright brothers), a trio of aviators in the "Republic of Cannabeer, P.U." who receive an army draft notice. The notice says the brothers have been granted a 30-day deferment of duty on account of their claims that the plane they are inventing, the “Buzzard”, will revolutionize flying. Curly proudly announces that their plane has put them among other "great inventors" like Robert Fulton, Thomas Edison, Alexander Graham Bell and Don Ameche. The boys get to work, but a series of mishaps cause them to get sidetracked; Moe twice gets knocked into a tub of rubber cement. The first time it happens, Larry and Curly try to get the rubber off Moe by expanding the rubber with hydrogen by turning him into a human balloon. Unfortunately, Moe floats to the top of the airplane hangar and into the sky, and Larry and Curly take aim with a shotgun and blast him to safety, resulting in Moe falling down in his long johns into a nearby well. Later, just as the boys are ready to test the Buzzard, they realize the plane is too wide to move out of the hangar. This problem is solved when the Stooges saw a larger opening in the airplanes hangar. But then they have another problem trying to start the planes propeller. Moe pushes the propeller to get it to start, but the propeller swings back at him and carries him for numerous revolutions before he his thrown off - where he lands in the same tub of rubber cement from before. Curly remarks while trying to pull Moe out, "Here we go again!" They eventually begin a test flight of the plane for a pair of aircraft company officials, but things begin to go awry. Curly accidentally breaks the rudder cable, Moe orders him to throw out the clutch, Curly unable to find it, throws out the gear shift lever instead. Moe attempts to repair the rudder cable but fails and the plane turns upside down and the three fall right back into the same well as before, dousing the aircraft officials with water as they splash into the wells bottom. As expected, the Stooges are drafted into the army, where they run afoul with their drill sergeant (Richard Fiske), disrupting marching and weapons handling drills.
Dizzy Pilots
1943