In 1858 Texas, the Speck brothers, Ace and Dicky, drive a group of black slaves on foot. Among the shackled slaves is Django, sold off and separated from his wife, Broomhilda von Shaft. The Speck brothers are stopped by Dr. King Schultz, a German dentist-turned-bounty hunter from Düsseldorf, who asks to buy one of the slaves. He questions Django about his knowledge of the Brittle brothers, a group of outlaws for whom Dr. Schultz is carrying a warrant. When Ace becomes suspicious, Dr. Schultz, a superior gunslinger, kills Ace with a fast draw, then shoots Dickys horse, pinning Dicky to the ground and crushing his leg. Dr. Schultz insists on honorably paying Dicky a fair price for Django before leaving him at the mercy of the newly-freed slaves, who kill him and follow the North Star to freedom. As Django can identify the Brittle brothers, Dr. Schultz offers him his freedom in exchange for help tracking them down. After tracking the Brittles to the Tennessee plantation of the wealthy Spencer "Big Daddy" Bennett and killing them, the liberated Django partners with Dr. Schultz and becomes his apprentice. Later that evening, the duo are hunted by Bennett and a large gang of white supremacists (a reference to the early Ku Klux Klan), but Dr. Schultz deceives and kills most of Bennetts gang with an explosive and Django kills Bennett. Dr. Schultz explains that he feels responsible for Django since Django is the first person he has ever freed, and feels morally obliged to help Django reunite with Broomhilda. Now fully trained, Django collects his first bounty, keeping the flyer for good luck. In 1859, Django and Dr. Schultz travel to Mississippi, where they learn the identity of Broomhildas owner: Calvin J. Candie, the charming but cruel owner of the Candyland plantation, where slaves are forced to fight to the death in brutal wrestling matches called "Mandingo fights". Dr. Schultz and Django meet Calvin at his gentlemans club in Greenville and submit their offer to buy one of his best fighters; however, this is a pretense. Their ulterior motive is to purchase Broomhilda. Intrigued, Calvin invites them to his ranch at Candyland. During the ride to Candyland, they come across a group of Calvins slave trackers cornering one of Calvins Mandingo fighters, DArtagnan, who tried to run away due to no longer wanting to fight. Calvin says that because he bought DAartagnan for $500, DArtagnan (who has only fought three times) must fight at least five times. When Django and Dr. Schultz offer to reimburse Calvin and then change their minds, Calvin has his chief tracker, Mr. Stonecipher, unleash several attack dogs that devour DArtagnan alive. After finding Broomhilda and telling her of their plan, Dr. Schultz claims to be charmed by her and offers to buy her as well. During dinner, Calvins staunchly loyal house slave Stephen becomes suspicious. Deducing that Django and Broomhilda know each other and that the sale of the Mandingo fighter is a ruse, Stephen alerts Calvin, who alters the deal so that Broomhilda will be sold instead of the Mandingo fighter. Dr. Schultz agrees, and the papers for her freedom are drawn up and signed. Calvin smugly insists that the deal be sealed through a handshake, which Dr. Schultz refuses. When Calvin threatens to have his bodyguard Butch Pooch kill Broomhilda, Dr. Schultz, who has finally had enough of Calvins cruelty and is still thinking about DArtagnans death, shoots Calvin through the heart with his concealed derringer, killing him. As Stephen mourns Calvin, Butch turns around and kills Dr. Schultz by shooting him with his sawed-off shotgun, and is killed by Django in turn with Butchs own revolver. A shootout begins, and Django shoots down a great number of Calvins henchmen before surrendering when Broomhilda is taken hostage. The next morning, Stephen tells Django that Calvins sister, Lara Lee Candie-Fitzwilly, is in charge now, and he will be sold to a mine and worked to death. En route to the mine, Django proves to his escorts that he is a bounty hunter by showing them his flyer. The escorts release him and give him a revolver, which he immediately uses to kill them before stealing a horse and returning to Candyland with a bag of dynamite. At the plantation, Django kills more of Calvins henchmen, including Mr. Stonecipher and all the other trackers, takes Broomhildas freedom papers from the dead Dr. Schultzs pocket, and frees his wife from a nearby cabin. When Calvins mourners return from his burial, Django kills Lara and the remaining henchmen, releases the two remaining house slaves, and kneecaps Stephen before igniting the dynamite that he has planted throughout the mansion. Django and Broomhilda watch from a distance as the mansion explodes, killing Stephen, before they ride off together.
Django Unchained
2012