Peter LaFleur is the owner of Average Joes Gymnasium, a small gym with only a few members. When he defaults on the gyms mortgage, it is purchased by his rival, the arrogant White Goodman, a fitness guru and owner of the Globo Gym across the street. Unless Peter can raise $50,000 in thirty days, White will foreclose on Average Joes and demolish it to build a parking garage. Attorney Katherine "Kate" Veatch is working on the transaction for White. White unsuccessfully attempts to seduce her; she is repulsed but just says she does not date clients. She develops a close friendship with Peter. Average Joes employees Dwight and Owen and members Steve "the Pirate", Justin, and Gordon try to raise the money needed to save the gym. Gordon suggests that they enter a dodgeball tournament in Las Vegas with a $50,000 prize. They form a team with Peter and watch a 1950s-era training video narrated by dodgeball legend Patches OHoulihan and a 12-year old boy named Timmy. They are soundly defeated by a Girl Scout troop in a local qualifying match but win by default when the Scouts are disqualified because of one members steroid and beaver tranquilizer use. White spies on Average Joes using a hidden camera in a cardboard cutout of himself, and forms his own dodgeball team to defeat them. Peter is approached by the aging, wheelchair-bound Patches, who volunteers to coach the team. Patchess training regimen includes throwing wrenches at the team, forcing them to dodge oncoming cars, and constantly berating them with insults. Kate demonstrates skill at the game but declines to join the team as it would be a conflict of interest. Then White arranges for Kate to be fired from her law firm, imagining she will now date him. Enraged, but now free of conflict, she joins the Average Joes team. At the tournament in Las Vegas, Average Joes suffers early setbacks but manages to advance to the final round against Globo Gym. The night before the match, Patches is killed by a falling sign. Peter expresses his anxiety that the team will lose and tells Steve that he is not a pirate, causing Steve to leave the team. White offers Peter $100,000 for the deed to Average Joes. The day of the final round, Justin leaves to help his classmate Amber with a cheerleading competition, leaving the team without enough members to compete. Peter has a chance encounter with Lance Armstrong, who talks him into rejoining his team. But he and Justin return too late; Average Joes has already forfeited the match. Gordon finds a loophole in the rules: a majority of the judges can overturn the forfeiture. Chuck Norris casts the tie-breaking vote allowing the team to play. After an intense game, Peter and White face off in a sudden-death match to determine the winner. Inspired by a vision of Patches, Peter blindfolds himself and is able to dodge Whites throw and strike him, winning the championship and the prize money. White declares the victory meaningless, revealing that Peter agreed to sell Average Joes to him the previous night, but Peter reveals that he used Whites $100,000 to bet on Average Joes to win; with the odds against them at 50 to 1, he collects $5 million. Because Globo Gym is a public company, he purchases a controlling interest in it, thus regaining Average Joes, and fires White. Steve, now with a more normal appearance, returns to the group after Peter apologizes to him, and quickly returns to his pirate persona. Peter is shocked when a girlfriend of Kates kisses her passionately, but Kate then reveals that she is bisexual and kisses Peter as well. Justin finds romance with Amber, while Owen begins dating Fran from the Globo Gym team. Peter opens youth dodgeball classes at a newly renovated Average Joes, while White returns to morbid obesity.
DodgeBall: A True Underdog Story
2004