Donald and his nephews are vacationing in Florida, and are passing by numerous interesting and culturally significant sites in Donalds car. The nephews, however, are uninterested in these sites, refusing to look up from their comic book. Donalds car begins to overheat, which sends him scrambling to find a source of water for his radiator. He comes across a small pond with a sign indicating that it was once mistaken for the Fountain Of Youth. Donald decides to use this to trick the boys, with the intent of making them believe Donald is experiencing dramatic reverse aging. Donald breaks off the top half of the sign, leaving only the bottom portion reading "Fountain of Youth," and makes exaggerated baby noises to get the nephews attention. The boys find Donald wearing a baby bonnet and exhibiting baby-like behavior, including tearing pages from their comic book. "Baby" Donalds outlandish behavior causes the boys to decide that some discipline is called for, and the boys go off to find a tree branch to use as a switch. However, Donald uses this time to steal an egg from a nearby crocodile, place it where he had just been standing, and put his baby bonnet on it to fool the boys into thinking he has further regressed to an egg. Donald watches from a nearby hiding spot alongside the very crocodile he stole the egg from. As the boys lament losing their Uncle to the reverse aging process, Donald attempts to share a laugh with the crocodile, who soon discovers that her egg is missing and Donald is the culprit. Enraged, the crocodile attempts to murder Donald. As Donald tries to escape, the two crocodile eggs hatch, imprinting the baby crocodiles into thinking Donald is in fact their mother. After further time spent evading the crocodile, Donald suffers a concussion that puts him into a stupor, after which the boys see him stumbling. Reuniting with the nephews, they run to the car and make a hasty exit. The crocodile is reunited with her babies, however due to their earlier imprinting onto Donald, they are terrified at the sight of their biological mother. The mother crocodile makes a quacking noise, causing her babies to accept her after all.
Don's Fountain of Youth
1953