The film features Joan Baez, Donovan and Alan Price (who had just left the Animals), Dylans manager Albert Grossman and his road manager Bob Neuwirth. Marianne Faithfull, John Mayall, Ginger Baker, and Allen Ginsberg may also be glimpsed in the background. The film shows a young Dylan: confident if not arrogant, confrontational and contrary, but also charismatic and charming. Notable scenes include: Dylans extended taunting of Time Magazines London arts and science correspondent Horace Freeland Judson who was subjected to what he believes to be a contrived tirade of abuse from Dylan. Dylans interrupting Alan Prices backstage performance of "Little Things" to ask Price why he left the Animals. Dylan and Baez singing Hank Williams songs in a hotel room, as well as Baez singing the first few verses of "Percys Song" and "Love Is Just a Four-Letter Word" (which was still apparently unfinished at the time, as Baez later tells Dylan, "If you finish it Ill sing it on a record"; she would record it on Any Day Now in 1968). Dylans pre-concert philosophical jousting with a "science student" (Terry Ellis, who later co-founded Chrysalis Records). Grossman negotiating with former Bebop Dance band leader and music agent Tito Burns. Dylan singing "Only a Pawn in Their Game" on July 6, 1963, at a Voters Registration Rally in Greenwood, Mississippi (shot by artist and experimental filmmaker Ed Emshwiller). A selection of songs from Dylans Royal Albert Hall performance. Dylan regaling the room with "Its All Over Now, Baby Blue" after proclaiming "Hey, thats a good song, man!" during Donovans performance of "To Sing for You". Dylans romance with Baez had pretty much run its course by the time of the tour, and the film candidly captures what amounts to their breakup. The opening scene of the film also served as a kind of music video for Dylans song "Subterranean Homesick Blues", in which the singer displays and discards a series of cue cards bearing selected words and phrases from the lyrics (including intentional misspellings and puns). Allen Ginsberg makes a cameo appearance during this episode.
Dont Look Back
1967