Bob Webster, aka Bat Williams, is a career criminal who keeps his parents and siblings in the dark about his chosen career by pretending to be an engineer who is often away in different parts of the world on assignments. He uses this ploy not only to disguise when he is out of town engaged in criminal activities, but also to cover the times he has been sentenced to prison. After receiving a parole from prison, he rejoins his gang, including his gangster girlfriend, Grace Forbes in robbing a creamery. A robbery during which they kill a clerk who can identify them. After the robbery, Williams leaves the gang and returns to his familys home in upstate New York. His father, John, his mother, Helen, and his sister, Mildred, all think the world of Williams. During his stints in prison, he sends one of the other gang members to different far-away locales, in order to mail a post card to his family, pretending that he is working there on an engineering job. During his visit, he overhears his father on the phone with the Governor, who is asking John to serve on the state parole board. Fearing discovery, Williams tries to convince his father not to serve on the board, but John wont commit one way or the other. While in his home town of Barlow, he also runs into his old girlfriend, Letty Graves. To impress Letty, Williams breaks into a jewelry store and steals a bracelet, but kills the security guard so that he cant identify him. Meanwhile, Detective Daniels has been pursuing Williams and his gang. He catches up to Grace, who is having an affair behind Williams back with another gang member, Al. Daniels threatens Grace with exposing the affair to Williams, if she doesnt help lure Williams into a trap. In order to save herself, she double-crosses Williams, and Daniels is able to arrest him and send him back to prison. Knowing that it was Grace who gave him up, Williams secretly escapes from prison and tracks her down, killing her. He then returns to prison by hitching a ride on a truck, before anyone notices that he is gone. Again to prevent identification, he plants a bomb in the truck, which explodes after dropping him off near the prison, killing the driver. When it is time for his parole hearing, he is surprised to find out his father is sitting on the board. John is also surprised that the hardened criminal, Bat Williams, and his son Bob are one and the same. John is leaning to voting not to parole, but Williams threatens him with letting the scandal about him becoming public knowledge. This would ruin Mildreds upcoming wedding. John relents and votes for parole, but not until he gets Williams word that he will leave the country once released. Instead of fleeing the country, he returns to Barlow, where he plans on robbing the payroll of Letties fathers company. However, Detective Daniels follows Williams to the company at night, where he interrupts Williams in the process of the robbery. Williams turns the tables on Daniels and is about to shoot him, when John shows up. He had suspected his son might be up to something and had also followed him that night. To prevent his son from shooting Daniels, he is forced to shoot Williams himself. Daniels takes Williams away, so John wont have to see his son die. John keeps the secret of Bobs life and death hidden from the rest of the family.
Don't Turn 'Em Loose
1936