In the late 1700s, Charleston, South Carolina has been overrun by pirates, who use the town as a safe haven to sell their plunder. One day, after a small brawl with two pirates, Davey Crandall (Donald OConnor) watches with his coworker, Tom Botts (Will Geer), the cargo-laden British ship Liverpool Queen enter the harbor. As soon as the cargo is unloaded and transferred to the shelves of cranky shopkeeper Caleb Nicholas (Morgan Farley), Charleston territorial governor Gerald Elden (John Emery) brings his charge, Lady Sylvia Copeland (Helena Carter), and British aristocrats Lord and Lady Montrose to view the imported treasures. While Sylvia and Davey flirt innocently, Lord Montrose recognizes a pin stolen from an English friend amid the booty. Although the governor has secretly negotiated with Caleb to sell and profit from the stolen goods, he feigns shock and orders Caleb, Davey, and Tom to be arrested. As the three march through the streets, the soldiers guarding them are attacked by pirates, allowing Davey and Tom to escape. However, Caleb is brought to Eldens home, where Elden shoots him to keep him from talking about their arrangement, and then, shocks Sylvia by proposing to her. When she spurns him, he orders her to accompany him to Virginia and, realizing that she loves Davey, vows to kill him. That night, Davey and Tom visit a pirate tavern in the hopes of convincing Captain "Bloodthirsty" Ben Wickett (Charles McGraw) to allow them passage on his boat, the Defiance. Although Davey impresses Wickett at first with a clever trick, the pirate refuses to board them without payment. To make money, Davey dances on the taverns stage but fails to merit attention until he improvises a song about a pirate. Although Wickett takes their newly earned money, he plans with his first mate, Isaac Wells, to throw them overboard when they reach the open sea. At sea the next morning, Wickett attempts to get the two drunk, but Davey, who is allergic to alcohol, refuses. After Wells sets out the plank for them to walk, Davey grabs a bottle for courage, and when his face breaks out in hives, the pirates fear that he has the pox and abandon ship in a panic. Davey and Tom sail on alone until they spot a ship. the Southern Gypsy. Forgetting and not realizing that the Defiance sports a pirate flag, they set off the ships cannons as a signal for help. The captain, who is carrying Elden and Sylvia as well as prisoners headed to debtors jail, assumes he is under attack by pirates and surrenders. Davey sees Elden on-deck and realizes he must disguise himself as pirate "Bloodthirsty Dave." After he and Tom board the Southern Gypsy and round up the crew, Elden immediately recognizes Davey from Calebs shop but Tom insists that being a shopkeepers apprentice was merely a ruse and that Davey is actually a pirate captain. Sylvia appears out onto the deck and hears Daveys "threats" to the crew if his demands are not met. She denounces him and informs Elden that she will marry him in Virginia. Dave is given Eldens prisoners to ensure that Dave and his "crew" will not attack and hereturns to his ship, despondent. He announces to the prisoners that he will free them if they help him sail to the pirate capital, the Isle of Tortuga. The grateful prisoners, many of whom are sailors, agree, and within days, they reach the island. On Tortuga, Davey is brought before a pirate tribunal, which includes Henry Morgan (Robert Barrat), Captain Kidd (Alan Napier), Mistress Ann Bonney (Hope Emerson), Captain Long Ben Avery (Glenn Strange), and Blackbeard (Louis Bacigalupi). They test Daveys supposed killer instinct by pitting him against Blackbeard, and after Davey cuts off the pirates belt, he wins the fight and is accepted into the brotherhood. He learns that they are funded by a mysterious American, whose messenger Davey quickly recognizes as Eldens valet. Realizing the depth of the governors corruption, he begs the pirates to help him attack Elden in Charleston, but they refuse and he is forced to go alone. Back in Charleston, Davey disguises himself as a British aristocrat in order to infiltrate a costume ball Elden is holding for Sylvia. He spirits Sylvia away and, by describing the wedding gown that Elden bought from a pirate, convinces her of her fiancés unscrupulousness. However, Elden recognizes Davey and jails him. That night, Sylvia sneaks out to the Defiance and plans with Tom to paint a miniature armada on the lens of a telescope, which will trick Elden into thinking he is being attacked by pirates. She brings Davey the telescope, and when Elden seizes it, he is fooled by the picture long enough for Davey to force him to sign a confession. Davey then races to Lord Montroses ship, but Elden gets there first and shoots him. Afterwards, Tom and Daveys crew arrive and a sword fight breaks out on the ship. Just as Davey chases Elden up a sail, the Pirate Brotherhood arrives to help. Panicked, Elden drops his sword and falls into the ocean. In Tortuga months later, Davey is married to Sylvia and is revered as a powerful pirate. He arranges for a pardon for his fellow pirates, and although they swear to go straight, news of a nearby ship loaded with gold quickly ends their reformation.
Double Crossbones
1951