In 1938, Walter Neff, a successful insurance salesman, returns to his office building in downtown Los Angeles late one night. Visibly in pain and sporting a gunshot wound on his shoulder, he begins dictating a confession into a Dictaphone for his friend and colleague, Barton Keyes, a brilliant claims adjuster. The story, told primarily in flashback, ensues. Neff first meets the alluring Phyllis Dietrichson during a routine house call to remind her husband that his automobile insurance policy is up for renewal. They flirt, until Phyllis asks how she could take out an accident policy on her husbands life without his knowledge. Neff deduces she is contemplating murder, and makes it clear he wants no part of it. However, he cannot get her out of his mind, and when Phyllis shows up at his apartment, he cannot resist her any longer. Neff knows all the tricks of his trade and devises a plan to make the murder of her husband appear to be an accidental fall from a train that will trigger the "double indemnity" clause and pay out twice the policys face value. After Dietrichson breaks his leg, Phyllis drives him to the Southern Pacifics Glendale train station for a trip to Palo Alto to attend a college reunion. Neff is hiding in the backseat and strangles Dietrichson when Phyllis turns onto a deserted side street. Neff then boards the train posing as Dietrichson and using his crutches. He makes his way to the last car, the observation car, and steps outside to the open platform to supposedly smoke a cigarette. A complication ensues when Neff posing as Dietrichson meets a passenger named Mr. Jackson there, but he manages to get Jackson to leave. Neff then throws the crutches onto the railroad tracks, jumps off the rear train car at a prearranged spot in Burbank to meet up with Phyllis, and drags Dietrichsons body onto the tracks. Mr. Norton, the companys chief, believes the death was suicide, but Keyes scoffs at the idea, quoting statistics indicating the improbability of suicide by jumping off a slow-moving train, to Neffs hidden delight. Keyes suspects foul play on Phyllis part because he suspected that she was having an affair with another man. Keyes instincts, which he refers to as the "little man," pointing to his abdomen, continue to nag him about Dietrichsons death. Norton does not suspect foul play at first, but later does and refuses to pay off the accidental death clause, which becomes a problem for both Neff and Phyllis. Like Keyes, Norton also wonders why Dietrichson did not file a claim for his broken leg, and deduces Dietrichson did not know about the policy. Keyes tells Neff of his theory outside Neffs apartment, while Phyllis hides behind the door. Keyes soon concludes that Phyllis and some unknown accomplice murdered Dietrichson for the insurance money, but needs more proof. Keyes, however, is not Neffs only worry. The victims daughter, Lola, comes to him, convinced that stepmother Phyllis is behind her fathers death. Lolas mother also died under suspicious circumstances, when Phyllis was her nurse. Neff begins seeing Lola, at first to keep her from going to the police with her suspicions. This later changes because he is plagued by guilt and a sense of responsibility to protect her from Phyllis. Neff suspects she will murder Lola because of both her suspicion in her parents murders and to take the inheritance for herself. Before his death, Mr. Dietrichson found out that Phyllis planned to kill him for financial gain and changed his will to prevent it. In his will, he left both his business and money to Lola as his primary beneficiary, leaving Phyllis with nothing. Keyes brings Jackson to Los Angeles, suspecting that the man aboard the train had not been Dietrichson, but rather had been Phyllis accomplice in Dietrichsons murder. After examining photographs of Dietrichson, Jackson is sure that the man he met in the observation car was at least ten years younger. Now certain that he can prove murder, Keyes is eager to reject the claim and force Phyllis to sue. Neff warns Phyllis not to pursue the insurance claim in court and admits that he has been talking to Lola about her past. Phyllis, however, insists on filing suit to pursue the claim despite the risk to both her and Neff. Lola eventually tells Neff that she has discovered that her boyfriend, the hotheaded Nino Zachetti, has been seeing Phyllis behind her (and Neffs) back. When Neff learns that Keyes suspects Nino of being Phyllis accomplice, Neff sees a way out of his predicament. He arranges to meet Phyllis at her house. He informs her that he knows about her involvement with Nino, and guesses that she is planning to have Nino kill him. He tells her that he intends to kill her and put the blame on Nino. She is prepared, however, and shoots him in the shoulder. Seriously wounded but still standing, he slowly comes closer and dares her to shoot again. She does not, and he takes the gun from her. She says she never loved him "until a minute ago, when I couldnt fire that second shot." Neff does not believe a word she says, and as she hugs him tightly, Neff says, "Goodbye, baby," and shoots twice, killing her. Outside, Neff waits for Nino to arrive (something Neff had orchestrated). Neff advises him not to enter the house and instead to go to Lola, the woman who loves him. Nino is reluctantly convinced and leaves as told. Neff drives to his office and starts speaking into his Dictaphone, as seen at the films opening. Keyes arrives unnoticed and hears enough to know the truth. Keyes sadly tells him, "Walter, youre all washed up." Neff tells Keyes he is going to Mexico rather than face the gas chamber, but sags to the floor from his injury and blood loss before he can reach the elevator. A weakened Neff tells Keyes that the reason why he could not figure the case out was that the guy whom he was looking for was "too close, right across the desk from you." When Keyes replies "closer than that, Walter," Neff declares that he loves Keyes, too. As Neff had done, lighting Keyes cigars for him throughout the film, Keyes lights Neffs cigarette as they await the police and an ambulance.
Double Indemnity (film)
1944