After a dice game one night in the Oklahoma oil town of Richfield, out-of-work engineer Buzz Doyle is broke. Another gambler, Reno Sebastian, has been cleaned out, too, but hostess Terry Miller tips them off that her boss Walter Karns, the big winner, was cheating with loaded dice. Reno has a ranch and an oil well that has not yet produced. He invites Buzz to come work for him, and Terry, who is close to Reno, thinks its a good idea because Renos got just 45 days to strike oil or the well will go to his sister Lilli, as stipulated in their fathers will. Lilli has hated Reno ever since he killed her fiance during a fight while they were gambling. Lilli is determined to get all his holdings now and will stop at nothing. She even tries to seduce Buzz into abandoning Reno and working for her, and when that doesnt work, Lilli threatens that something bad will happen to Buzz if he stands in her way. The corrupt Karns is in love with Lilli and will do her bidding. Reno is found dead in Buzzs hotel room. He is initially a suspect but is cleared. In his will, Reno left his ranch to Terry, not to his sister. To sort out whos entitled to what, Terry and Buzz seek the advice of Corpus P. Mills, a tipsy attorney who represented the father of Reno and Lilli before he died. Next, it is Lilli who is found dead, directly after a contentious meeting with Terry, who becomes a suspect and who now stands to inherit the ranch and the oil well. Mills convinces the authorities that Terry is not guilty and that, considering the apparent pattern of the murders, she is more likely to be the next victim. When Terry is escorted home by a police officer, a totally sober Corpus Mills intercepts and kidnaps her. When they arrive at his place, it soon becomes clear that, from the start, Mills has been masterminding a scheme. He once held leases on all the rich land in the area, when these leases ran out the land was parceled off to the likes of Reno and Lilli. Corpus admits to both killings and reveals to Terry how Renos will stipulates that if something happens to her - which it will as he completes his plan - the properties return to Mills possession. Walter Karns has been hiding in the house and now reveals himself to inform the attorney that he saw him murder Lilli. Karns figures this knowledge entitles him to "half of everything". Corpus shoots Karns, killing him. Unaware of any of this, including the fact that Terry is no longer suspected of Lillis murder, Buzz arrives to ask Mills for help. Before letting Buzz in, the attorney forces Terry into the basement and covers up the death of Karns. He then convinces Buzz that Terry is not in any trouble and that shes waiting for Buzz back at the hotel. Thanks to a tip-off from an unlikely source, Buzz discovers Karns body and Terry. A fight ensues, the police show up and Corpus Mills discovers that his crimes wont pay. In the end, Terry and Buzz get each other and a gusher of oil.
Double Deal (1950 film)
1950