Tom goes with his owner on a fishing trip while Jerry joins to tag along, but rudely throwing his fishing gear at Tom, provoking him to knock Jerry out of the car. However, Jerry manages to sneak in by going under the car when it stops in a driveway, coming in from an opening in the floor of a trunk then kicks Tom out of the car, causing Tom’s head to skid along the road. Jerry taunts Tom as he chases down the car, but it stops at the red traffic light and Tom bends in his neck on the open trunk door. As a light turns green again, the car drives away, and after running towards it, Tom manages to hop back into the car to capture Jerry. Jerry manages to escape from Tom’s clutches. Tom grabs a frying pan to hit Jerry with it, but misses when Jerry jumps out of the way, causing Tom to whack his owner on the back of his head. Toms owner, his face was instantly turning red, turns to Tom to grab the frying pan and repeatedly hit him on the head with it. However, the owner only gets into trouble by the other drivers as he says "The same to you, Mac!" and worries. Jerry sneaks under the owners seat to pushes down on the gas pedal at its hardest, causing the car to speed up so fast that the speedometer breaks. Toms owner looks down and sees Tom’s hand, now believing that he was a culprit and angrily stomps on it, causing Tom to yell in pain and swelling his hand in the process. Jerry offers Tom with the first aid kit. Tom, enraged at Jerry for making him to get a blame for speeding, attempts to hit Jerry with his swollen hand, but misses again and causes his swollen hand to hurt more. Tom chases Jerry outside of the car and onto the roof, but he falls off onto the front of the car when he blocking an owners view. The irate owner stops the car, causing Tom to fly off and skid his bottom against the road. Tom see his bottom that they are on fire from the skidding and jumps into a nearby lake to put out the fire, evaporating the water in the process. Tom runs back into the car, but his owner, having enough of Tom’s recklessness, grabs Tom by his neck and straps him on the passenger seat very tightly to keep him out of trouble. Tom manages to escape with his confinement and searches around for Jerry. Meanwhile, Jerry is using the first aid kit to disguise one of the owners shoes as a mouse. When the car finally makes it to the fishing grounds, Tom grabs an oar to whack Jerry with when he sees him. As the owner to exit the car, Tom sees the disguised shoe, believing it to be Jerry as he angrily whacks his owner on the foot with the oar, causing him to scream and jump up in pain as hit his head on the car roof, creating a large dent into it. A frightened Tom tries to flee, but the infuriated owner catches Tom with his automatic fishing rod before Tom prays himself and gets thrashed (off-screen). Then Tom is forced to carry the heavy load of equipment to the boat as a punishment, not knowing that Jerry is hiding in the picnic basket. As Tom loads the boat, the owners sour frown gradually becomes a smile, and the cat is back on his masters good graces. While on the boat, Tom spots Jerry in the basket and uses an air pump to suck him out into the water. In retaliation, Jerry swims under the boat and ties Tom’s fishing hook to the owners foot before he tugs Tom’s line. Tom, believing he caught the fish, reels in his catch, and making the owner go into the water, only with Toms joy turn into horror when he sees caught his owner and he once again gets thrashed as Jerry looks on. Finally, Jerry and Toms owner are seen happily to fishing after given to know about Toms trouble attempting to make Jerrys not allowed to join the fishing, while Tom is tied up and placed into a bucket. All their catches are thrown like slapping into Tom’s face as punishment for not respecting to do so. Tom sobs at his predicament as the cartoon ends.
Down and Outing
1961