Lt. Commander Thomas Dodge (Kelsey Grammer) is about to be passed over a third time for his own nuclear submarine. The reasons given are (1) his unorthodox command methods, (2) an unfortunate "brushing" incident with a Russian submarine, and (3) the rumor of a genital tattoo he acquired after getting blind drunk following that incident. Failure to secure a submarine will result in Dodge being dropped from the navys command program. During his career, Tom Dodge has made an enemy of Rear Admiral Yancy Graham (Bruce Dern), who strongly speaks out against Dodges promotion. Vice-Admiral Dean Winslow, ComSubLant (Rip Torn) likes Dodge and his unorthodox methods. A war game is planned to test the navys defenses against attack from older Soviet diesel-powered submarines in the hands of Americas enemies. Dodge is selected to put the World War II-era Balao-class diesel sub USS Stingray (SS-161) back in commission as the war games Opposing Force. Winslow tells him to "think like a pirate", promising Dodge that if he can sink a target ship in Norfolk Harbor, Dodge will be considered for a command. Graham handpicks a "crew from hell" for Stingray: hot-tempered, uptight Lt. Martin Pascal (Rob Schneider) as the Executive Officer; crusty civilian naval contractor Howard (Harry Dean Stanton) as Chief Engineer; rebellious Engineman 1st Class Brad Stepanek (Bradford Tatum); sharp-eared Sonarman 2nd Class E.T. "Sonar" Lovacelli (Harland Williams); compulsive gambler Seaman Stanley "Spots" Sylvesterson (Jonathan Penner); former college basketball player Seaman Jefferson "R.J." Jackson (Duane Martin); shock-addled Electricians Mate Nitro (Toby Huss); and not-so-Culinary Specialist Second Class Buckman (Ken Hudson Campbell) as Stingrays cook. Graham also selects, Lt. Emily Lake (Lauren Holly) to serve as the subs Diving Officer, the only woman aboard. Using unorthodox tactics and an Atlantic storm, Dodge and his crew sneak into Charleston Harbor and set off signal flares. Now desperate to defeat Dodge, Graham reduces the war game containment area by half without Winslows authorization. Failing to penetrate Norfolk Harbor, Dodge leaves the containment area and heads out to sea. Irate at this lapse in protocol, the strident, by-the-book Pascal attempts to take command of the Stingray; the crew does not support his action, so Dodge charges Pascal with mutiny. Wearing mock-buccaneer outfits and talking like pirates, Dodge and crew force the blindfolded XO to walk the plank into the raised fishing net of a waiting trawler that will take him ashore. During Stingrays second attempt at Norfolk, Graham assumes personal control of the submarine U.S.S. Orlando. Dodge employs an incredibly dangerous maneuver to sneak past the ships and aircraft protecting Norfolk. Orlando is able to locate and chase her down. Before the Orlandos shooting solution is obtained, Dodge is able to fire two live torpedoes at 900 yards into the anchored target ship at Norfolk, winning the war game for Stingray. Returning to port, Graham is chastised by Admiral Winslow and denied his promotion. Winslow informs Dodge that he will not get his own Los Angeles-class submarine, as previously discussed, but a new Seawolf-class submarine (the US Navys most advanced attack submarines), plus a proper crew. Dodge respectfully requests that his entire Stingray crew be transferred with him. He then dismisses his crew to begin a well-earned shore leave. As Dodge and Lake leave the dock, she poses a query now that they know each other: "What exactly is this tattoo I keep hearing about?".
Down Periscope
1996