The story begins by recapping the events of the previous film, following Dr. Anton Phibes murderous quest for vengeance against the doctors he blamed for the death of his wife, Victoria. Phibes eluded capture by placing himself in suspended animation in a sarcophagus he shares with the body of his wife, where he would remain until the moon had entered into a specific alignment with the planets. Three years later, the conjunction occurs, and Phibes rises from his sarcophagus. Summoning his silent assistant Vulnavia (Valli Kemp, replacing Virginia North), Phibes prepares to take Victoria to Egypt; there, in a hidden temple, flows the River of Life, promising resurrection for Victoria and eternal life for them both. Emerging from his basement, Phibes discovers that his mansion has been demolished, and a safe containing a papyrus scroll, showing the way to the River of Life, is now empty. Phibes knows of only one person who could be seeking the same goal: Darius Biederbeck (Robert Quarry), a man who has lived for centuries through the use of a special elixir. After translating the papyrus, Biederbeck prepares to travel to Egypt to find the River of Life for himself and his lover Diana (Fiona Lewis). Phibes and Vulnavia enter Biederbecks house, kill his manservant and reclaim the papyrus, then leave for Southampton to take a boat to Egypt. Biederbeck travels with Diana and his assistant Ambrose (Hugh Griffith) on the same boat; Ambrose is killed by Phibes when he discovers Victorias body in the hold, and his body is stuffed in a giant bottle and thrown overboard. Inspector Trout (Peter Jeffrey) discovers Ambroses body when the bottle washes ashore near Southampton. He and Superintendent Waverley (John Cater) question Lombardo (Terry-Thomas), the shipping agent for the boat; upon hearing the descriptions of the tall woman (Vulnavia) and a clockwork band being brought aboard, they realize that Phibes has returned. Trout and Waverley pursue Phibes to Egypt, catching up to Biederbecks archaeological party near a mountain with the hidden temple. Phibes, having set up residence inside the temple, hides Victorias body in the hidden compartment of an empty sarcophagus. He also finds the silver key that opens the gates to the river. Phibes kills each of Biederbecks men using methods inspired by Egyptian mythology: one man is killed by a hawk, another is stung to death by scorpions. Biederbecks team eventually breaks into the temple and takes the sarcophagus, and Biederbeck discovers the key. Phibes uses a giant fan to simulate a wind storm, while Vulnavia enters the tent with the sarcophagus and crushes the man watching over it in a giant screw press. Though the sarcophagus is retaken and Victorias body is safe, Phibes discovers the key is gone. Biederbeck is unmoved by the murders and insists on finding the River of Life. He sends Diana with the last remaining team member, Hackett (Gerald Sim), back to England. Hackett leaves his truck to investigate a battalion of British troops, but finds they are really more of Phibes clockwork men. When he returns to the truck, Diana is gone and he is sand-blasted to death, his truck crashing into Biederbecks tent. Realizing Phibes must have taken Diana, Biederbeck confronts him. Phibes demands the key in exchange for Dianas life. Unable to break her free of Phibes trap, Biederbeck surrenders the key and apparently gives up his quest. Phibes unlocks the gates to the river and takes Victorias coffin through. Then, through an apparent secret passageway, he summons Vulnavia to join them. Biederbeck instantly changes his mind and begs Phibes to take him. His pleas are ignored, all unbeknownst to Diana and the officers who see this. She attempts to comfort her lover, who unknown to her begins to age rapidly. As Phibes, singing "Over the Rainbow", and his boat fade from sight down the passage, its implied that Biederbeck dies of extreme old age.
Dr. Phibes Rises Again
1972