On the morning of the 2014 NFL Draft, Cleveland Browns general manager Sonny Weaver Jr. must decide how to use the seventh overall pick to improve the team, but he has other problems on his mind. His girlfriend Ali Parker, the teams salary cap analyst, is pregnant. Also, his fathers recent death and funeral plans cause pandemonium with his mother. The Seattle Seahawks hold the first overall pick, which general manager Tom Michaels offers to trade to the Browns, allowing them to draft highly-rated quarterback prospect Bo Callahan, the Heisman Trophy winner from Wisconsin. Sonny declines, but with advice from team owner Anthony Molina to "make a splash," reluctantly trades away the Browns first-round draft picks for the next three years. The unexpected chance to obtain Callahan excites Browns fans, but splits the teams front office and players. The trade goes public after a tweet by Ohio State linebacker Vontae Mack, who had been Sonnys first preference. Seahawks fans are unhappy at missing Callahan, putting pressure on Tom for giving Callahan up. Vontae advises Sonny to re-watch footage of him and Callahan playing against each other. Vontaes individual performance is superior but Callahan leads his team to victory on a last-second drive with a wrongly-ejected Vontae not on the field. Sonny begins to have doubts about Callahans character and ability under pressure. When the draft begins that evening, Sonny waits until the last minute to decide who to select with the first pick, and eventually chooses Vontae. Roger Goodells announcement of the selection shocks the rest of the league and disrupts many of their plans for their own picks. Molina becomes irate and flies back to Cleveland, intent on firing Sonny. Head coach Vince Penn is also incensed, and threatens to resign. Rumors spread about Callahan as other teams avoid him, wondering why Sonny didnt pick him. However, the Seahawks are still in contention to pick Callahan with their seventh pick, and Sonny senses an opportunity. Sonny convinces the rookie general manager of the Jacksonville Jaguars to trade him their next pick (at sixth, just before the Seahawks) in exchange for the Browns second-round draft picks for the next three years. Sonny then calls Tom, who intends to pick Bo Callahan at seventh, trying to prevent the Seahawks from having him. In return for passing on Callahan to let the Seahawks have him, Sonny demands his first-round picks back, along with punt returner David Putney. The Seahawks seal the deal and choose Callahan. With his pick, Sonny appeases Penn and Molina by selecting the skilled running back Ray Jennings of Florida State. The team celebrates an outstanding draft for the Browns. After the draft party, Sonny reconciles with his mother over his excellent draft performance and her soon-to-be first grandchild.
Draft Day
2014