In May 1950, Major Matt Brady (John Hodiak) is redeployed to Pusan, South Korea. His mission there is to train South Korean pilots in the defensive struggle. Also, there are air support exercises in case the Americans need to be evacuated. Colonel Schuller (Richard Simmons) sends Brady and Captain MacIntyre (Gerald Mohr) to the airbase in Kungju. The American instructors only have 25 days left to introduce the South Korean pilots to U.S. training and tactics. At the base, Brady meets Donna Cottrell (Barbara Britton), his former fiancé. Her husband, Red Cross physician Dr. Stephen Cottrell (Bruce Bennett), is said to have been killed in action. When Donna finds out that he is actually alive - he had been captured, but was able to escape - she returns to him. She tells Matt that Stephen cannot work as a surgeon any more, as his hands were badly injured during enemy torture. She is intent on doing the right thing, but feels torn between the two men. The training of the South Korean pilots makes progress, which is carefully noted by Dixon (Jess Barker), a reporter. Captain Veddors (Harry Lauter) tells him that Matt does not fly any more because he once caused a fatal crash with a test pilot. Matt receives an encrypted message announcing a serious enemy attack. MacIntyre informs Matt that Lieutenant Kim-Sun is not able to fly due to the illness of his sister, but Matt needs every man. Kim-Sun dies in the crash of his aircraft and, as a consequence, the pilots blame Matt. MacIntyre suspects that Kim-Suns aircraft was sabotaged. Colonel Schuller orders the evacuation of all Americans and gives Matt the order to release the South Korean pilots into active service. Stephen stays behind in Kungju to carry on his work, while Donna leaves the base in a convoy. The convoy is attacked by two tanks. Colonel Conners cautions Matt that air support for the convoy is out of the question but, by sanction of the United Nations, intervention by U.S. infantrymen is possible. Matt stays behind on the base with Veddors and MacIntyre. Soon the news of the invasion of South Korea arrives. Captain Warnowski and his infantry battalion reach Kungju. Due to heavy tank assaults, of the original complement of 400 men, only 30 remain. The infantry find Captain Wyler (Adam Williams), who was driving the truck Donna was in. Before he dies of his wounds, he tells Matt that Donna has successful escaped. As the attacks intensify, North Korean aircraft damage the airfield, subsequently, Matt and Warnowski decide to retreat. The South Koreans identify an old woman as a spy, who has been transmitting information about the base to the enemy by radio, and execute her. Matt and his remaining troops come under heavy fire with Matt being wounded and Veddors killed. In Chungtu village, they reach a Red Cross hospital, and soon Donna too arrives there. There she hears that Stephen was killed during the fighting. The enemy tanks thrust forward and force the survivors to retreat further. When U.S. aircraft attack and stop the tanks, Matt, Donna and the rest of the convoy escape.
Dragonfly Squadron
1954