Bobby Keller (Corey Feldman) is a slacker high school student who, while running through a short cut through a backyard in his neighborhood one night, collides with Lainie Diamond (Meredith Salenger), over whom Bobby has recently been obsessing. During the collision, elderly professor Coleman Ettinger (Jason Robards) is performing a meditation exercise in the yard with his wife Gena (Piper Laurie), theorizing that if he and his wife can enter a meditative alpha state together voluntarily, they will be able to live together forever. However, just as the Ettingers are on the verge of completing their meditation experiment, the teenagers collision renders both teens unconscious, enacting a type of body switch between the four characters. Bobby wakes up in his bedroom to find his best friend Dinger (Corey Haim) and his parents asking him if hes okay, but "Bobby" has no idea who these people are because he is actually Coleman trapped in Bobby Kellers body. Coleman leaves the house to find his wife but returns when he cannot find her or make any sense of the situation. On his return to Bobbys home, Coleman plays up the role of Bobby for his family and friend, just wanting to go to sleep to see if the alpha state he attains in dreams will give him any clue to what has gone wrong with the experiment. In his dream, Coleman is greeted by the real Bobby, who appears to be trapped in a dream partially generated by Colemans own subconscious. Coleman discovers that Gena, skeptical of her husbands "dream state" theory from the beginning, is also trapped in the dream but is unable to communicate with him because part of her mind has been transferred to Lainies body. Bobby informs Coleman that he has very little time to prevent whats left of his wife from forgetting about him and becoming lost in the dream forever. Bobby claims to know the secret to switch them all back, yet is reluctant to help Coleman do so, finding the dream-world he now inhabits to be more satisfying than the physical world in which he existed as a troubled teen. Coleman realizes he only has a few days (while pretending to be Bobby) to overcome generation gaps, high-school bullies, Lainies violent and unstable boyfriend Joel, and Lainies bitter and manipulative divorced mother in order to improve Bobbys grades, love-life, relationships with his family and friends, and connect with Lainie (who is not particularly fond of Bobby) enough to convince her to recreate the meditation experiment that might save his beloved wife.
Dream a Little Dream (film)
1989