Daffy, introduced as a "Western-Type Hero" and Porky (billed as "Comedy Relief") ride along the desert until they come across the small "Lawless Western Town" of Snake-Bite Center, which is so full of violence that the population sign changes immediately when someone is shot. Daffy notices that the last sheriff had been shot, so the town needs a new sheriff. Daffy picks a sheriff badge out of his collection of badges and rides into town on his horse, Tinfoil, with Porky following behind on his donkey. In a recorded commentary on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection, the commentator warns the viewer that "this film is literally stuffed with every western cliché ever done." This is illustrated in such spoof scenes as follows: a man is firing guns while chasing another man; both stop at a traffic light so a second pair can cross, then their chase resumes. Two riders on horseback casually approach one another, when they are in close proximity the horses recoil in anger and begin shooting at each other. Other scenes include a holdup at "Custards Last Stand" and a masked horse stealing horseshoes from a smithy at gunpoint. In the town, Daffy is about to take a drink at the bar when Nasty Canasta walks in past his Wanted poster (which states "$5,000,000 REWARD (DEAD)" and "RUSTLER, BANDIT, SQUARE DANCE CALLER"). Daffy tries to intimidate Canasta with his gun ("Stick em up, hombre! Youre under arrest"), but Canasta just bites off most of the gun and eats it ("Hmm. Probably didnt have his iron today!"). Canasta then threateningly orders himself and Daffy "two of his usual", a drink made of various poisons and toxic materials like cobra fang juice, hydrogen bitters and old panther (so hot that when two ice cubes are put in it, they jump out, yelping and bouncing into a fire bucket to cool off). Canasta downs the drink with no side effects (other than his hat flipping); Daffy gets Porky to drink the other one, Porky comes through seemingly with no side-effects either. So, Daffy demands one for himself and pours it down his throat. A few seconds later, Daffy and Porky exhibit wild side effects, including reciting "Mary had a Little Lamb" in Elmer Fudd-ese, turning green, and acting like theyre motorized; Daffys bullets shoot by themselves and create a hole in the floor, which he falls into, then rockets out of before coming back to earth. As he floats down, Daffy sternly says to Canasta "I hate you." Eventually, Daffy challenges Canasta to a showdown in the street. Daffy and Canasta start walking towards each other, the street deserted (with camera angles designed to parody the showdown camera angles common in Western films of that era), when Porky takes matters into his hands by winding up a small British toy soldier and letting it go towards Canasta, accompanied by Raymond Scotts The Toy Trumpet. Canasta picks up the toy, chuckling, until it points its gun at Canasta and fires, sending Canasta to the ground. With Canasta defeated, the rest of the people in town rush over to Porky, while Daffy is still pacing his way to the middle of the street. Daffy finally notices the adoration given to Porky, and in vain tries to get their attention ("Gimme the cheers! Give me … Give me one dozen roses."). Porky is now the town sheriff, and Daffy reiterates his claim that hed "clean up this one-horse town" to the camera — except now hes a sanitation worker. Porky remarks: "Lucky for him [Daffy] it is a one-horse town."
Drip-Along Daffy
1951