An unnamed mechanic who is a stunt double, a stunt driver, and a criminal-for-hire getaway car driver lives in the Van Nuys neighborhood of Los Angeles. His jobs are all managed by auto shop owner Shannon, who persuades Jewish mobsters Bernie Rose and Nino to purchase a car for the Driver to race. The Driver meets his new neighbor, Irene, and grows close to her and her young son, Benicio. Their budding relationship is interrupted when Irenes husband, Standard Gabriel, is released from prison. Standard owes protection money from his time in prison and is beaten up by Albanian gangster Cook, who demands that Standard rob a pawnshop to pay off the debt. Cook gives Benicio a bullet as a symbol that he and his mother are in danger. The Driver, concerned for the safety of Irene and Benicio, offers to act as the getaway driver for the pawnshop robbery. The job goes awry when the pawnshop owner shoots and kills Standard while the Driver is waiting for him with Cooks accomplice, Blanche. Pursued by a mysterious adversary, the Driver and Blanche escape after an intense car chase. The Driver hides with Blanche in a motel where he learns from a news report that the pawnshop owner claims Standard performed the robbery by himself and no money had been stolen. The Driver slaps and threatens to hurt Blanche when she lies about being oblivious to the second car. She then admits that the bag actually contains a million dollars and that she and Cook planned to re-steal the money for themselves using the car that chased them. Two of Cooks men ambush them in their room and kill Blanche before the Driver manages to kill them both. At the auto shop, Shannon offers to hide the money, but the Driver refuses. He hunts down Cook in a strip club, smashes his fingers with a hammer, threatens to kill him, and force-feeds him the bullet that was given to Benicio. Cook reveals that Nino was behind the robbery. The Driver decides to return the money, but Nino dismisses the offer and instead sends a hitman to the Drivers apartment building. The Driver asks Irene to run away with him and the money, but she slaps him in anger of her husbands death and the Drivers involvement. Entering the elevator with her, the Driver encounters the hitman. He kisses Irene and brutally beats the hitman to death, leaving her stunned and horrified. Surprised that Nino knows his address the Driver confronts Shannon, who reveals that he also unwittingly mentioned Irene. The Driver advises Shannon to flee for his safety. At the pizzeria, Nino reveals to Bernie that the pawnshop money belonged to a low-level Philadelphia wise guy who is making inroads into their territory. Bernie insults Cook and scolds Nino for stealing from the East Coast Italian Mafia, noting that their lives will be in danger if word of their involvement gets out. Nino, however, is tired of being patronized and even ethnically slurred by the Italian-American mobsters. Bernie finds the steady flow of money a redeeming quality in dealing with the East Cost mob, but Nino uses this argument to further his point, namely that they must kill everyone tied to the robbery--including the Driver and Shannon. Bernie promptly murders Cook with cutlery from the pizzeria, thereby proving that he accepts Ninos plan. Shortly thereafter, when Shannon refuses to divulge the whereabouts of the Driver, Bernie kills him at the auto shop with a straight razor. The Driver, disguising himself with a rubber mask from his stuntman job, follows Nino from the pizzeria to the Pacific Coast Highway and T-bones his car onto a beach; he chases Nino from the wreck to the ocean and drowns him. He makes a phone call to Irene to tell her he is leaving and that meeting her and Benicio was the best thing that ever happened to him. The Driver goes to meet Bernie, who promises that Irene will be safe in exchange for the money. He gives Bernie the money but Bernie attempts to kill him, stabbing him in the stomach. The Driver pulls out his own knife and fatally stabs Bernie. He abandons the money next to Bernies corpse and leaves. Irene knocks on the Drivers apartment door but to no avail. In the last shot, the Driver drives off into the night.
Drive (2011 film)
2011