The cartoon, set in winter, finds Daffy Duck removing and burning every "Duck Season Open" sign he finds in order to warm himself in the winter, and prevent himself from being hunted. Elmer is out hunting and Daffy uses several signs to convince Elmer that its rabbit season, making Elmer excited about "Fwesh Wabbit Stew!" just before Elmer follows the yellow trail to Bugs rabbit hole. Daffy lures Bugs Bunny out by asking for a cup of blackstrap molasses. Just as Bugs Bunny comes out of his rabbit hole, Elmer points the gun at him and declares that he got his "Wabbit Stew". However, Bugs is already prepared for Daffys trick and attempts to convince Elmer not to shoot him because he is obviously an endangered species. Bugs tricks Daffy into getting Elmer to shoot him multiple times. A fricasseeing rabbit (the irony being that fricassee is actually a type of stew) and that Elmer doesnt have a license to shoot fricasseeing rabbits. This enrages Daffy, who attempts to convince Elmer Fudd that Bugs Bunny is actually trying to fool Elmer and orders Elmer to shoot Bugs, prompting Elmer to regretfully point out that he doesnt have the proper license. Exasperated, Daffy writes out the proper hunting license but has to ask Bugs how to spell "fricasseeing". Bugs tells him, "F-R-I-C-A-S-S-E-E-I-N-G", adding "D-U-C-K". Oblivious to the trick, Daffy gives Elmer the license ("The fine print doesnt mean a thing!") and Elmer obediently blasts Daffy. This leads into an extended routine in this short that has Bugs holding up various "animal season" signs to correspond with every figurative expression involving an animal that Daffy is called, either by himself, or by Bugs in response (including "goat", "pigeon", "mongoose" and "dirty skunk"). Each presentation of the sign is accompanied by a brass fanfare of a fox hunting call, and is, of course, followed by a gunshot; after each shot, irritated Daffy is forced to put his beak back in place. At one point, Bugs builds a snow-rabbit image of himself and when Elmer blasts it, Bugs Bunny appears disguised as an angel (which Elmer believes, to Daffys total disgust). Bugs then puts on a duck disguise. Daffy (who has been instructing Elmer not to pay attention to the signs but to only do what he tells Elmer) sees him and shouts "Shoot the duck!" to which Elmer obliges by shooting the nearest duck — Daffy. Daffy finally goes completely insane, demanding "Shoot me again! I enjoy it! I love the smell of burnt feathers and gunpowder and cordite!" then bounding around on all fours like an elk and scuttling around sideways like a crab, shrieking that its Elk and Fiddler Crab Season respectively and that Elmer should shoot him. The antics become truly confusing at the end when the now-totally bewildered Elmer encounters Bugs disguised as a game warden and begs him to tell Elmer what hunting season it really is, to which Bugs tells Elmer that its baseball season. On hearing this, Elmer, too, then completely loses his sanity and starts shooting at a baseball as he runs off into the distance. While hes gone, Bugs asks Daffy what hunting season it really is. Daffy casually answers that its duck season and ends up getting blasted by many hunters hiding behind rocks. Daffy crawls back, seething and smoldering from being shot, and tells Bugs "Youre despicable!".
Duck! Rabbit, Duck!
1953