The story revolves around unrelated pairs of people who spend time in karaoke bars across the United States in the week leading up to a big contest in Omaha. Ricky Dean (Huey Lewis) is a hustler on the karaoke circuit. He travels from town to town feigning ambivalence of karaoke, then winning both the contests and side bets with locals. He is detoured by a phone call and travels to Las Vegas for the funeral of an ex-girlfriend; while there, he meets his daughter Liv (Gwyneth Paltrow), with whom he hasnt made contact with for many years. Seeking a father figure after the death of her mother, Liv joins him against his wishes on the road, both singing solos at karaoke bars. They are involved in a bar fight when one of Rickys marks retaliates. Depressed California salesman Todd Woods (Paul Giamatti) is so exhausted from business travel that he doesnt even know what city hes in; when he gets home, his wife Candy (Kiersten Warren) and two children are too self-absorbed to even say hello. Bored, he walks out on his family and his old life, driving aimlessly. He wanders into a karaoke bar in New Mexico, where a fellow participant offers beta blockers to help him overcome his anxiety and stage fright. Todd gets hooked on the drugs as he keeps driving. In Utah, he picks up hitchhiker Reggie Kane (Andre Braugher), a charismatic but violent fugitive convict, who has already robbed a truck driver who gave him a lift at gunpoint. The two form an unlikely friendship after Reggie reveals a beautiful singing voice during a duet at another karaoke bar. Todds mental health deteriorates further as Reggie tries to keep him out of trouble; he first has to drag Todd out of a hotel when he threatens the clerk with a gun; then, after Todd causes a standoff at a service station, Reggie shoots and kills the attendant. Reggie arranges for Candy to meet them in Omaha, but an emotionless Todd rejects her, insisting he is finished with his former life. Cincinnati-based underachieving cab driver and onetime aspiring priest Billy (Scott Speedman) goes on a drinking binge after catching his partner cheating on him. He meets Suzi Loomis (Maria Bello), a broke drifter who gets by on karaoke contest prizes and sexual favors. Neither respects the others lifestyle, but Billy nonetheless agrees to drive her to California, stopping at karaoke bars for Suzi to compete along the way. All three pairs end up at the Omaha contest, each having won the right to compete there for $5,000 by virtue of winning in a smaller town. Finally accepting his daughter, Ricky invites her to perform a duet of her mothers favourite song, Cruisin. Billy discovers that Suzis confidence is fake when he finds her in the ladies room, vomiting from stage fright, but he convinces her to compete. Reggie sees the police arrive, investigating the service station shooting. He performs an a cappella version of Free Bird before pulling a gun on stage, prompting police to shoot him; this gives Todd a chance to put the full blame for the service station shooting on Reggie, which frees Todd to return his old life. After the contest, Billy and Suzi continue on their way to California. Billy invites Liv (with whom he had been flirting with at the contest) and Ricky to join them, and they resolve to take a slight detour to another karaoke contest in Nevada. Todd and Candy contemplate reconciliation, but the fate of their relationship is left open.
Duets (film)
2000