In 1917, somewhere in France during World War I, the men of the French Air Force assemble to determine who must rid the skies of the enemy pilot, Baron Sam Von Schpamm. A drawing straws game begins resulting in Porky Pig (addressed as Captain Smedley in this cartoon) selected for the mission. Next day, at dawn, while Porky is suiting up for the flight, Bugs Bunny knocks him out with a brick and takes his place, because Porky has a family (a wife and 6 piglets). Meanwhile, somewhere in Germany, Sam is awarded an Iron Cross for his service. Sam, however, is sick of getting those things and wants a well-deserved long furlough. Bugs drops him a bunch of flowers and a poem. Sam reads the note and feels insulted-Bugs has written "Baron" with a small "B" and claims the Big "B" is in the flowers. When Sam looks at the flowers, a bee flies out and stings his nose. Sam has trouble getting a plane started, but having solved that and taken flight, Sam catches up to Bugs. Bugs pulls up into the clouds and Sam crashes into a mountain. Sam runs back to the airfield and grabs another plane. While he looks for Bugs, Bugs comes up behind him and buzz-saws right through Sams plane. In another plane, Sam starts shooting at Bugs with a machine gun, but Bugs dodges every time. Sams shooting only ends up shearing his own plane to bits, leaving only the undercarriage which becomes a unicycle when he lands. Sam then takes to the skies in a bomber. Having sighted and targeted Bugs, he releases the bombs, but he falls out of his plane and gets caught in the explosion of his bombs on the ground. Sam takes to the skies in a dinky little plane, which at the push of a lever transforms into a fierce fighting machine quad-plane loaded with machine guns. Sam pulls the switch to full power, but this rips the plane into three parts, making Sam fall and get killed in the ammunition dump. Bugs then comments he has heard of Hells Angels, but he never thought he would actually see one. The final scene then shows Sam in a devils suit, playing a harp and floating skyward.
Dumb Patrol
1964