In 1912, Broadway star Don Hewes (Fred Astaire) is buying Easter presents for his sweetheart ("Happy Easter"). At one store, he must persuade a young boy to part with a cuddly Easter rabbit he wants and instead choose a set of drums ("Drum Crazy"). Hewes takes the gifts to his dancing partner, Nadine Hale (Ann Miller), who explains that she has been offered a show that would feature her as a solo star. Don tries to change her mind and it looks as if he has succeeded ("It Only Happens When I Dance With You"), until Dons best friend, Johnny (Peter Lawford), arrives. Nadine reveals that she and Don are no longer a team and makes it obvious that she is attracted to Johnny. She continues to pursue Johnny, but he refuses her out of respect for Don. Don drowns his sorrows at a bar, where he brags that he can make a star of the next dancer he meets. He picks one of the girls performing on stage, Hannah Brown (Judy Garland), and tells her to meet him for rehearsal the next day. Don tries to turn Hannah into a copy of Nadine, teaching her to dance the same way, buying her dresses in a similar style and giving her an "exotic" stage name, "Juanita." However, Hannah makes several mistakes at their first performance ("Beautiful Faces Need Beautiful Clothes"), and the show is a fiasco. Hannah meets Johnny, who is instantly attracted to her and sings "A Fella With An Umbrella" while walking her to her rehearsal with Don. After Johnny tries - unsuccessfully - to reunite Nadine and Don by inviting both to lunch and then leaving them alone, she tells him her friends are laughing because Hannah is trying to be her. Don realizes his mistake and after hearing Hannah sing "I Love A Piano," works out routines more suited to Hannahs personality. Now known as "Hannah & Hewes", the duo are shown much more successfully performing "I Love a Piano," "Snookie-Ookums", "The Ragtime Violin", and "When That Midnight Choo-Choo Leaves For Alabam." At an audition for Ziegfeld Follies, Hannah and Don meet Nadine, who will star in the show. Hannah realizes that Nadine was Dons former dancing partner and demands to know if they were in love. Later, Don meets Hannah back at the hotel and reveals that he turned down the Ziegfeld offer, believing that Hannah and Nadine do not belong in the same show. Johnny arrives to take Hannah to dinner, at which he reveals that he has fallen in love with her. While Hannah does like Johnny, she admits she is actually in love with Don. She and Johnny continue to have a close friendship. Nadines show opens ("Shakin The Blues Away") and Don is in the audience. When Don and Hannah meet the next day, he reveals he signed them to star in their own show and invites her to celebrate over dinner. Hannah arrives at Dons, only to have him suggest a dance rehearsal. She is upset and tells him that he doesnt see her as a woman, only a dancing aid. She tries to leave, but Don stops and kisses her. Hannah then plays the piano and sings "It Only Happens When I Dance With You," after which Don realizes he is in love with Hannah and they embrace. The couples show contains a solo by Don ("Steppin Out With My Baby"), followed by the best-known musical number in the film ("A Couple of Swells"), in which Don and Hannah play a pair of street urchins with vivid imaginations. Don and Hannah go to celebrate after the show at the roof garden where Nadine is performing. The audience gives Don and Hannah a rousing ovation as they arrive, much to Nadines chagrin who hears the uproar backstage. After she dances in a number called "The Girl On The Magazine Cover," she insists that Don perform one of their old numbers with her for old times sake - "It Only Happens When I Dance With You (Reprise)." When Don reluctantly agrees, Hannah becomes upset and leaves, believing that Don has only been using her to regain Nadine, and has succeeded. She goes to the bar where she and Don first met. She pours out her troubles to Mike the bartender ("Better Luck Next Time"). When Hannah returns to her apartment, she finds Don waiting. Don tries to explain that he was forced to dance with Nadine and tells Hannah hell wait all night for her to forgive him, but just before Hannah opens the door, Don is evicted by the house detective. The next morning Hannah tells Johnny about her and Dons misunderstanding. Johnny says if he loved someone he would let her know it. Hannah realizes that Johnny is right and goes to meet Don for their date for the Easter Parade. Later that morning, several gifts arrive at Dons apartment, with no cards. Hannah arrives unexpectedly saying she sent them, oblivious to the previous evenings argument and urging Don to prepare for their Easter date. As they walk in the Easter parade, photographers take their picture, echoing the films opening with Nadine, and Don proposes ("Easter Parade").
Easter Parade (1948 film)
1948