The story begins with the revelation that Seattle, Washington is being plagued by a string of murders, which Edward suspects is caused by a new vampire that is unable to control its thirst for human blood. As Edward and Bella apply to colleges, Bella explains to Edward her desire to see her friend, Jacob Black, a werewolf. Although Edward fears for her safety, Bella insists that neither Jacob nor his werewolf pack would ever harm her, and she begins visiting him occasionally. On one of these visits, Jacob tells Bella that he is in love with her, and wants her to choose him instead of Edward, but Bella says she just sees him as a friend. Meanwhile, Alice Cullen has a vision that Victoria, a vampire who is hunting Bella for revenge for the death of James, has returned to Forks. Alice takes Bella away against her wishes for a sleepover. During the sleepover, Bella learns more of Rosalies past that led to her eventual transformation to a vampire and her real reasons for treasuring humanity. While being a vampire is still her wish, Bella eventually agrees to rethink her decision. A few days later, Edward proposes to Bella and, despite harboring an aversion to marriage, she accepts on the condition that he will make love to her while shes human. Bella and the Cullens soon realize that the Seattle murders are being committed by an "army" of newborn vampires, controlled by Victoria. The Cullens join forces with the werewolf pack to combat this threat, after failing to get their longtime allies, the Denali Coven to help them. As everyone else prepares for battle, Edward, Bella and Jacob camp in the mountains, hidden during the battle, where they are later joined by Seth Clearwater, a young wolf pack member, to wait out the fight. In the morning, Jacob becomes upset when he overhears Edward and Bella discussing their engagement and threatens to join the fight and get himself killed. Bella stops Jacob by kissing him, and she comes to realize that she is in love with him as well. During the battle, Victoria tracks Edwards scent to Bellas forest hiding place, and Edward is forced to fight. Edward manages to kill Victoria and her vampire army is destroyed by the Cullens. Afterwards, Bella explains to Jacob that while she loves him, her love for Edward is far greater. The book ends with Bella proceeding to tell Charlie of her intentions to marry Edward. The epilogue reveals that Jacob is heartbroken and has run away in his wolf form. Leah feels sympathy for him, since she had gone through a similar heartbreak with Sam, and reveals her own disgust and hatred for Bella.
Eclipse (Meyer novel)
2010