Canadian Arnold Boult (Spencer Tracy) and his wife Evelyn (Deborah Kerr) are celebrating the first birthday of their son Edward with their friend, physician Larry Woodhope (Ian Hunter), in their London home shortly after World War I. Arnold is about to embark upon a new career in finance with Harry Simpkin (Mervyn Johns), who has been released from prison after serving time on fraud charges. Five years later, Edward is diagnosed with a serious illness requiring a costly operation abroad. With his retail credit business doing poorly, Boult decides to burn down the building in order to finance the surgery with the insurance money. Despite reservations about his partners scheme, Harry goes along with the plan. As the years pass, Boult evolves into a wealthy, titled financier who will do anything to protect his son. When Edward is threatened with expulsion from his prep school, Lord Boult assumes its mortgage. Time passes, and Evelyn confides in Larry her concern that Edward drinks too much and appears to have no sense of morality. Larry strongly suggests that something be done to control Edward, but Lord Boult feels the young man can do no wrong. Having served another sentence for fraud, Harry comes to Boult and asks for a job. When he is put off, Harry commits suicide by leaping from the roof of his former partners office building. When the police investigate, Boults secretary Eileen Perrin (Leueen MacGrath) lies that Harry did not come to the office that day. She and Boult become lovers. A year later, during a tryst in Eileens apartment, the two discover they are being observed by a detective working for Evelyns attorney. Anxious to avoid scandal, Boult breaks up with Eileen, who later kills herself with an overdose of pills. Boult departs for Switzerland to see his wife and Edward. Evelyn threatens to expose Boult to Edward so that their son will see his fathers true nature, but in return Boult promises he will destroy Larry, who loves her, unless she remains silent. Evelyn acquiesces. As the years pass, she becomes increasingly unhappy and begins to drink heavily. Edward also has become an alcoholic and is engaged to socialite Phyllis Mayden (Harriette Johns), although young Betty Foxley (Tilsa Page), who is pregnant with Edwards child, believes he will marry her. Boult informs her of Edwards engagement and seems ready to pay her off or provide her with an abortion, but she rejects his overtures and proudly proclaims that she can take care of herself. Edward, serving as a Royal Air Force pilot during World War II, crashes his plane while stunting and is killed along with his crew. Lord Boult, now a widower, has discovered that Larry delivered Bettys child. Boult beseeches Larry to tell him their whereabouts. Certain that Boult will have just as corrupting an influence upon the childs life as hed had upon Edwards, Larry refuses, leaving his obsessed old friend determined to do whatever is necessary to find his grandchild. Boults quest is temporarily interrupted when he is imprisoned for having burned down his business decades earlier, but after his release he declares his intent to resume the search.
Edward, My Son
1949