Mr. McFarland is driving erratically down a residential street on the way to drop off his son John. John notices damage to the car and realizes that his father is drunk, so John instructs him to move to the passenger seat and let him drive. Alex and Eric are bullied at school by the so-called jocks, one of whom diverts a teacher and throws a spitball at Alex during science class. Later, Alex and Eric are shown at home ordering weapons from a website and receiving a rifle in the mail. While Alex is taking a shower, Eric gets in with him. He claims that he has never been kissed, and the two kiss. The two formulate an attack plan. The next day, Alex and Eric prepare for the shooting, then make their way to school in silence in Alexs car. After arriving at school, Alex and Eric encounter John outside and tell him to leave, as some "heavy shits about to go down". Realizing what is about to happen, John attempts to warn others not to enter the school, to mixed effect as a few students listen to him but others, as well as a teacher, do not and enter into the building. He also tries to find an adult to get help from but cannot. The two gunmen then enter the school, and after their plans to blow up parts of the school with propane bombs fail, begin shooting indiscriminately. A friendly student named Elias photographs them entering the library where they open fire, shooting several students, including a bespectacled outcast named Michelle and presumably Elias. Realizing that the gunfire is real, students now begin to panic, while teachers attempt to quickly evacuate the building; an African-American student named Benny silently walks the halls and helps some students escape to safety with aplomb while nearing Alex. Johns worthless father shows up and can offer no consolation to his devastated son as they see the school burning and hear gunshots and screams. The two boys separate, continuing their killing spree. Alex enters the bathroom where three popular girls named Brittany, Jordan and Nicole are, presumably shooting all three. The school principal, Mr. Luce, cornered by Eric in a hallway, begs Eric to lower his weapon and talk to him, but Eric yells, "I aint putting shit down!" and fires at him. He does speak to Mr. Luce, however; while he is doing so, he turns without warning to see an approaching Benny and shoots and kills him before Benny could stop Erics attack. Eric turns back to Luce and warns him to take heed of whats happened from bullied students and initially lets Mr. Luce go, before smiling evilly and changing his mind by firing several shots down the hall that strike and kill the principal. Alex enters the cafeteria, which is strewn with overturned chairs, backpacks, several dead bodies, and numerous abandoned half-eaten lunches, and sits down. Alex picks up a cup from an abandoned lunch and casually drinks from it. Eric meets up with him, and they have a brief conversation, which ends when Alex shoots Eric in mid-sentence. Alex leaves the cafeteria, showing no emotion over shooting Eric, and discovers Carrie and Nathan in a freezer. He tauntingly recites "Eeny, meeny, miny, moe" to them to decide whom he should kill first. The film then cuts to credits leaving the ending ambiguous.
Elephant (2003 film)
2003