Colonial tea planter John Wiley, visiting England at the end of World War II, wins and weds lovely English rose Ruth and takes her home to Elephant Walk Bungalow, the plantation house built by his father in Ceylon. They are stopped by a bull elephant on their way to the house, which a very angry John frightens away with a few gunshots. Ruth soon discovers John is still dominated by his father, "The Governor," long after the mans death; and that Johns mother was never happy at Elephant Walk. In fact, she left Johns father shortly after their marriage but returned when she discovered she was expecting a child; and, eventually, she died. Ruth has a strained relationship with Apphuamy, the principal servant, whose real master continues to be the late "Governor" - to whose tomb, in the garden, Appuhamy regularly speaks, expressing his dislike of the new mistress. A room containing a very stern, larger than life portrait of "The Governor" is kept in his room, which has not been changed since the old man died - and which is always kept locked. Ruth learns from John that Elephant Walk is so named because his father, Tom Wiley, deliberately built it across the path of migration used by a herd of elephants to reach a water source. The elephants continue to attempt to use their ancient path to get to the water, but are kept out by the walls and the defensive efforts of the servants. Thus, Ruths initial delight with the tropical wealth and luxury of her new home is quickly tempered by her isolation as the only European woman in the district; by her husbands occasional imperious arrogance and angry outburst; by Appuhamys polite but nonetheless insubordinate attitude toward her; by a mutual physical attraction with plantation manager Dick Carver; and by the hovering, ominous menace of the hostile elephants. The tide of Elephant Walk history turns in Ruths favour when the district is hit by a Cholera epidemic, and she makes herself indispensable to the relief effort. Appuhamy confesses to the tomb of "The Governor" that he was wrong about the new mistress, and he hopes that she will stay. But Ruth has finally gotten through to John that, as long as they stay at Elephant Walk, he will continue to be dominated by his dead father instead of becoming his own man; that they must leave. In the end, the decision is made for them when the elephants finally manage to break through the wall and stampede onto the grounds, killing Appuhamy in the process. Elephant Walk Bungalow is smashed and catches fire. The portrait of the Governor is seen burning. John and Ruth manage to escape as the house begins to collapses around them. Dick Carver sees them together in the hills just above the house and realises Ruth will never be his. As John and Ruth look down upon Elephant Walk burning to the ground, it begins to rain. "Im sorry," she says. "Im not," he replies. "Let them have their elephant walk. Ruth, well build a new place - a home - somewhere else!" The bull elephant who appeared on the road near the beginning of the film raises his trunk and gives a mighty trumpet call; as the words appear on the screen, "The End."
Elephant Walk
1954