Elmer Gantry (Burt Lancaster) is a hard-drinking, fast-talking traveling salesman with a charismatic personality who infuses biblical passages and fervor into his pitches as a way to ease and collect money. He is drawn to the roadshow of Sister Sharon Falconer (Jean Simmons) and is immediately attracted to the saintly revivalist. As the troupe leaves town for Kansas, Gantry sweet talks her naive assistant, Sister Rachel (Patti Page), into telling him information regarding Falconers past. He uses that information to con his way into Sister Sharons good graces and joins the troupe preaching "Christ in commerce" and how he is a saved salesman. Gantry and Falconer develop what her manager, Bill Morgan (Dean Jagger), calls a "good cop/bad cop" routine, with Gantry telling the audience members that they will burn in Hell for their sins and Sharon promising salvation if they repent. Because of Gantrys fire and brimstone sermons, the group comes to the attention of the church council in Zenith, Winnemac, a larger city. Though Morgan does not think Falconer is ready to preach outside of the smaller venues, Gantry convinces her to go to Zenith. They meet with the church leaders, most of whom are wary of turning religion into a spectacle as Gantry does, but he convinces them that the churches must earn money to stay open. Travelling along with Falconer is the big-city reporter, Jim Lefferts (Arthur Kennedy). Lefferts is torn between his disgust for religious hucksterism and his genuine admiration for Gantrys charm and cunning. As Gantrys sermons bring Falconers group to larger venues, Lefferts writes a series of articles labeling the revival a sham and reveals that neither Sharon nor Gantry has any credentials. Falconer eventually admits to Gantry that her real name is Katie Jones and that her origins are humbler than she publicly admits. Falconer also becomes Gantrys lover and loses her virginity to him. The success of the Falconer-Gantry team comes to the attention of Lulu Baines (Shirley Jones), a former girlfriend of Elmers who fell into disrepute and became a prostitute when her affair with Gantry ruined her standing in her minister fathers eyes, and Gantry ditched her. Acting as a moralist, Gantry unwittingly invades the brothel where Lulu works, but sends the prostitutes out of town when he sees Lulu. When he meets Lulu privately after she phones him, Lulu wants revenge against Gantry for running out on her in Kansas. However, her love for Gantry returns when confronting him and they embrace. A hidden photographer planted by Lulu records their embrace but Gantrys love for Falconer prevents him from consummating with Lulu. Lulu proceeds to frame Gantry out of jealousy for his love for Falconer. Lulu blackmails him, and Falconer is asked to bring $25,000 ($348,906.61 in 2017 dollars). in exchange for the negatives of incriminating pictures. Falconer brings the money, but Lulu refuses to accept; the pictures are then printed in the front page of the towns newspaper. Lulu had at first offered Lefferts the exclusive story of Gantrys supposed sexual indiscretion, but he refused, shrugging the pictures off as merely proof that Gantry is as human as anyone else. An angry mob ransacks the tent at the tent revival following the publication of the incriminating photos in another newspaper, and Lulu joins the congregation at this tent revival and is a witness to Gantrys humiliation. As she watches the mob curse Gantry and smear him with eggs and other produce, she is emotionally shaken and flees the scene. Lulu returns to the brothel, which is now in a dilapidated state from Gantrys publicity stunt. Her pimp is there to collect the $25,000, but when Lulu tells him she did not take Falconers money, he beats her. Gantry comes to Lulus rescue. He disposes of the pimp and apologizes to Lulu, who then publicly confesses to having framed Gantry. Gantry returns to Sharon on the night her new tabernacle opens. Falconer declines Gantrys request to give up her soul-saving ventures, and insists that she and Elmer were brought together by God to do His work. Suddenly, a fire erupts at the tabernacle. Unable or unwilling to see past her own religious zeal when the place is engulfed in flames, Falconer dies. The next day, Gantry, saddened by Sharon Falconers death, leads a spiritual with her followers. Morgan suggests that Gantry take up where Sister Sharon had left off and Gantry replies with (1 Corinthians 13:11), "When I was a child, I understood as a child and spake as a child. When I became a man, I put away childish things." His valise in one hand, Bible in the other, and a smile on his face, Gantry strides away.
Elmer Gantry (film)
1960