In 2154, Earth is overpopulated and polluted. Most of Earths citizens live in poverty, on the edge of starvation, and with little technology and medical care. The rich and powerful live on Elysium — a gigantic space habitat located in Earths orbit. Elysium is technologically advanced, including medical machines known as Med-Bays that can cure all diseases, reverse the aging process, and regenerate new body parts. A long-running feud exists between the wealthy residents of Elysium and the citizens of Earth, who demand Elysian technology to cure their medical ailments. Max Da Costa, a former car thief on parole, lives in the ruins of Los Angeles, and works at an assembly line for Armadyne Corp, a company run by John Carlyle, who had originally designed Elysium, and now supplies its weaponry, as well as the robots that police Earth. During an industrial accident at the factory, Max is trapped in a chamber, and is hit by a lethal dose of radiation. After being rescued, he is informed that he has five days to live before succumbing to radiation poisoning. Desperate for a cure, he and his friend Julio seek help from a human smuggler named Spider to get him to Elysium; his only chance for survival is using a Med-Bay. Meanwhile, when a trio of ships full of illegal immigrants from Earth attempts to reach Elysium and its Med-Bays, Elysian Defense Secretary Delacourt, an intense, cold, ruthless Frenchwoman, orders a sleeper agent, Kruger, to destroy the shuttles. While two of the shuttles are shot down in space, killing everyone on board, the third shuttle makes it; but, once on Elysium, everyone on board is either killed or arrested and deported. Elysian President Patel reprimands Delacourt for her immoral and unsubtle methods and threatens to fire her unless she tones down her actions. Regarded as a loose cannon, Kruger is dismissed from service. Delacourt, vowing to protect Elysium and her own power, bargains with John Carlyle to create a program that can override Elysiums computer core to give her the Presidency. Carlyle stores the reboot program in his brain for transport to Elysium and encrypts it with a lethal protection program. Spider agrees to get Max to Elysium if he can steal financial information from Carlyle. To assist him, Spiders men surgically attach a powered exoskeleton to Max. With Julio and a team of Spiders men, Max shoots down Carlyles ship, and in the ensuing firefight with Carlyles security droids, Carlyle is fatally wounded. Max downloads the program to his suits neural implant but realizes that the encryption makes it unusable. Alerted to the data theft by Carlyles medical implant, Delacourt secretly reinstates Kruger and deploys him to recover the program. In the ensuing shootout, Julio is killed and Max is wounded. He contacts his childhood friend Frey, now a nurse, whose daughter Matilda has leukemia. Frey begs Max to take Matilda to Elysium to be cured, but Max refuses in order to protect them. Soon after Max leaves, Kruger, alongside two more mercenaries, Drake and Crowe, arrive and brutally interrogate Frey; and, when Kruger realizes Matilda is sick, they take Frey and Matilda prisoner aboard his ship while his drones hunt for Max. Delacourt orders an airspace lockdown over Los Angeles to buy enough time to recover Carlyles program. Max delivers the program to Spider, who discovers that the program can be used to make all Earth residents Elysian citizens. However, because the lockdown makes it impossible to leave Earth, Max bargains with Kruger to be taken to Elysium, unaware that Kruger has already found out that Frey assisted Max and is holding her and Matilda hostage on the ship. As Krugers ship leaves Earth, Spider and his men take advantage of the lifting of the lockdown and also board a ship towards Elysium. Meanwhile, in Krugers ship, a fight ensues and Kruger is grievously wounded by a grenade blast, which also disables the ships engines. After Krugers ship crashes on Elysium, Max is knocked out by Drake after a struggle while Frey runs to a house with an unconscious Matilda and puts her on a Med-Bay, only to find that it only works on Elysian citizens. At that moment, Crowe arrives and subdues Frey with a taser. Afterwards, Max, Frey and Matilda are taken to Delacourt, who orders the download of the program despite the fact that it will kill Max. She then orders Frey and Matilda to be taken away by Crowe, who locks them in a supply room. After being restored in a Med-Bay by Drake and Crowe, a defiant Kruger kills Delacourt after she chastises him for his recklessness. On Krugers orders, Drake and Crowe exterminate the Elysian political officers in order to seize control for themselves. Meanwhile, having escaped his confinement, Max, knowing that Med-Bays only work for Elysian citizens, resolves to use Carlyles program to give everyone on Earth Elysian citizenship. After being ordered by Kruger to kill Frey and Matilda, Crowe enters the supply room and prepares to sexually assault Frey first, but is killed by Max, who also kills Drake before freeing Frey and Matilda. Max then meets up with Spider, who has one of his members escort Frey and Matilda to a nearby Med-Bay. They then head for Elysiums core but are ambushed by Kruger, now equipped with a military-grade exoskeleton far superior to Maxs. In the ensuing fight, Max manages to rip out Krugers neural implant, rendering his suit immobile. However, Kruger tethers himself to Maxs suit and arms a grenade with the intent of killing them both. Max rips off the tether and hurls Kruger over a ledge to his death. Spider and Max reach Elysiums computer core, where Spider realizes that the programs activation will kill Max. Max personally activates the program, having spoken the last time with Frey via radio. As Max dies, Elysiums computer core reboots and registers every Earth resident as an Elysian citizen and revokes all Elysian residents of their citizenship. President Patel arrives with security guards but the robots refuse to arrest Spider, whom they now recognize as a citizen. Matilda is cured by a Med-Bay and Elysiums computer dispatches a huge fleet of medical ships to begin treatment of the citizens of Earth.
Elysium (film)
2013