During the first ice age, a caveman attempts to make fire with his girlfriend. An earthquake causes a cave-in that buries the two of them. This segues into a present-day Los Angeles earthquake that awakens average teenager Dave Morgan. He, along with his best friend Stoney, strives to attain popularity in high school but comes off more as a reject and an outcast. Dave is in love with Robyn Sweeney, a sweet and attractive girl who has been his best friend since grade school, and, until she reached adolescence, had been rejected by Dave on several occasions. Her boyfriend, Matt Wilson, is a stereotypical athlete and school bully who is constantly responsible for making both Dave and Stoney the objects of ridicule by humiliating them in various ways, usually directly due to Daves growing affections toward Robyn. One day, as Dave is digging a pool in his backyard, he comes across a chunk of ice that has the body of a man in it following an earthquake. They leave the ice block unattended in the garage and space heaters left on cause the ice to melt, releasing the caveman from the opening of the film. The caveman falls head first into the 20th century, discovering a garbage truck which he misinterprets as a mammoth from his time, and television which he discovers upon entering Daves house. When the boys return home, they find hand paint covering the walls and the house is in disarray. Investigating a beeping smoke alarm, they discover the caveman in Daves bedroom, attempting to start a fire "Indian-style" by rotating a stick in the center of a pile of kindling. At first, the caveman panics at the sight of them, but then Stoney quickly calms him by using the flame of a lighter to mesmerize him after he panics from the phone ringing. After bathing him and trimming him to look like an average teenager, Dave names him "Link" as in the missing link. They manage to fool Daves family into thinking he is actually an Estonian exchange student sent to live with them, and enroll him in school where Links bizarre behavior and supreme athletic skills shoot Dave and Stoney to popularity by association, allowing Dave to get closer to Robyn, to Matts chagrin. It soon becomes apparent that Stoneys bizarre attitude is having an effect on Links actions and speech, which causes a rift between Dave and Stoney and after a fight with Matt at a skating rink, as well as an attraction developing between Robyn and Link. During a school field trip to a natural history museum, Link gets upset realizing that the cavepeople he knew are all dead and the gravity of his situation, but Stoney and Dave console Link that he is not without friends in this time, causing the trio to make a pact. Dave tries to send Link away, but a fight between him and Stoney cause Link to come running back. Stoney and Dave then make up. On prom night, Link is a hit at the party with Robyn as his date while Dave stays in for the evening. Matt breaks into Daves bedroom and steals photographic evidence that Link is a caveman. As Dave and Stoney go after Matt and his friends, another earthquake happens. At the prom, Matts plan to uncover the "freak" backfires as the information instead makes Link even more popular. Dave and Robyn make up, and the three boys lead the entire prom in an impromptu caveman-like dance. After the prom, the students attend Daves house for a pool party where Dave and Robyn kiss. Meanwhile, Stoney and Link follow clues similar to when they found him ranging from breast prints on the slider and paint covering the walls. They follow the muddy footprints to the bathroom and discover a beautiful cavewoman in the bathtub who turns out to be Links girlfriend from the beginning of the film. He joins her in the bathtub as Stoney cheers them on and embraces her happily as she is also made to look like a modern human.
Encino Man
1992