A shade named Durza, along with a group of urgals, ambushes a party of three elves. After he and the urgals kill the other elves, Durza attempts to steal an egg carried by one of the female elves, but is foiled when she causes it to vanish. Infuriated, he renders her unconscious with a ball of fire and abducts her. Eragon is a fifteen-year-old boy who has lived with his uncle Garrow and cousin Roran (Roran Stronghammer) on a farm near the village of Carvahall, ever since his mother Selena, Garrows sister, left him there right after his birth. While hunting in the Spine, Eragon is surprised to see the blue dragon egg, which he believes to be a stone, appear in front of him. A few months later, Eragon witnesses a baby dragon hatch from the egg. Eragon names the dragon Saphira, after a name the old village storyteller Brom mentions. He raises the dragon in secret until two of King Galbatorixs servants, the Razac, come to Carvahall; though it is later revealed that they werent looking for the egg at first. Eragon and Saphira manage to escape by hiding in the Spine, but Garrow is fatally wounded and the house and farm are burned down by the Razac. Once Garrow dies, Eragon is left with no reason to stay in Carvahall, so he goes after the Razac with his newly hatched dragon, seeking vengeance for the destruction of his home and his uncles death. He is accompanied by Brom,who provides Eragon with the sword Zarroc and insists on helping him and Saphira. Eragon becomes a Dragon Rider, an ancient warrior charged with promoting peace in Alagaësia, through his bond with Saphira. He is the only known Rider in Alagaësia other than King Galbatorix, who, with the help of the now-dead Forsworn, a group of thirteen dragon riders loyal to Galbatorix, killed every other Rider a hundred years ago. On the journey, Brom teaches Eragon sword fighting, magic, the ancient elvish language, and the ways of the Dragon Riders. Their travels bring them to the city of Teirm, where they meet with Broms friend Jeod. Eragons fortune is told by the witch Angela, and her companion, the werecat Solembum, gives Eragon some mysterious advice. With Jeods help, they are able to track the Razac to the southern city of Dras-Leona. Although they manage to infiltrate the city, Eragon encounters the Razac in a cathedral and he and Brom are forced to flee. Later that night, their camp is ambushed by the Razac. A stranger named Murtagh rescues them, but Brom is gravely injured. Saphira watches over Brom as the night progresses, yet when morning comes they realize there is nothing they can do to save him. Brom gives Eragon his blessing, reveals that he was also once a dragon rider and that his dragons name was Saphira, and dies. Saphira then encases Brom in a tomb made of a diamond. Murtagh becomes Eragons new companion and they travel to the city Gilead to find information on how to find the Varden, a group of rebels who want to see the downfall of Galbatorix. While stopping near Gilead, Eragon is captured and imprisoned in the same jail that holds a woman he has been having dreams about. As she is being dragged past she is revealed as an elf when her pointed ears are uncovered. Murtagh and Saphira stage a rescue, and Eragon escapes with the unconscious elf. During the escape, Eragon and Murtagh battle with Durza. Murtagh shoots Durza between the eyes with an arrow, and the Shade disappears in a cloud of mist. Having escaped, they run off. Eragon succeeds in communicating with the elf, whose name is revealed as Arya, and learns the location of the Varden. After some arguing, Murtagh decides to still travel with Eragon to the Varden but is still wary of them. An army of Kull (Urgals who can grow up to 8 feet) reach Eragon right outside the Vardens entrance, but are driven off with the help of the Varden, who escort Eragon, Saphira, Murtagh, and Arya to Farthen Dûr the mountain hideout of the varden. When they arrive in Farthen Dûr, Eragon is led to the leader of the Varden, Ajihad. Ajihad imprisons Murtagh after he refuses to allow his mind to be read to determine if he is a friend or a foe to the Varden. Eragon is told by Ajihad that Durza was not destroyed by Murtaghs arrow, because the only way to kill a Shade is with a stab through the heart. Orik, nephew of the dwarf King Hrothgar, is appointed as Eragon and Saphiras guide. Orik shows them a place to stay and introduces them to Hrothgar. Eragon also meets Ajihads daughter, Nasuada, and Ajihads right-hand man, Jörmundur. He also runs into Angela and Solembum, who have arrived in Tronjheim, and visits Murtagh in his prison. He is tested by two magicians, The Twins, as well as Arya. Eragon and the Varden are then attacked by the Kull, as well as the rest of the Urgal army. Eragon personally battles Durza again, and succeeds in stabbing him in the heart with Zarroc, but Durza slashes a deep cut like Murtaghs on his back. He then passes out, and is visited telepathically by a stranger while he is unconscious who tells Eragon to visit him in the Elven capital, Ellesméra.
Eragon
2006