Ben Logan is an American single parent who has recently moved to Belgium with Amy, his previously estranged teenaged daughter. He works for a company within the Halgate Group, a multinational technology corporation. When one of his co-workers discovers that a patent has been apparently misfiled, Logan brings it to the attention of his boss, Derek Kohler. Shortly afterward, he finds his entire office building is empty and no records exist of the Kohler Company nor his employment. Confused, Logan attempts to prove his employment by accessing bank records, but he and Amy are kidnapped at gunpoint by a coworker. Logan kills the coworker in front of a stunned Amy, who demands to know his background. Logan cryptically alludes to "getting people in and out of difficult situations". Logan soon discovers that the rest of his coworkers have all been killed, and he goes into hiding, aided by Amys contacts among undocumented immigrants she had befriended. Eventually, Logan uncovers documents proving a wide-ranging conspiracy involving illegal arms sales to African insurgents, meant to allow Halgate to access lithium mining rights when the insurgents take power. The Halgate shell company Logan was working for allowed the CIA to harness his (and others) security engineering skills, to help manage regime change. Logan finally tells Amy that he is an ex-CIA operative. Father and daughter are hunted by the CIA, Belgian police, and an assassin hired by Halgate. The CIA team is led by Anna Brandt, his former lover, who is also on the Halgate payroll. Many collateral civilians are killed on the street, at a hospital, at a railway station, in a hotel, and at their Arab immigrant hideout as they are chased, betrayed, and make many narrow escapes. After many innocent people have died, Brandt changes sides and attempts to protect Amy, who was captured by the assassin. Brandt is killed by the assassin. Logan goes after his corrupt former employers and arranges to deliver himself, and the documents, in exchange for Amys life. He is able to say goodbye to Amy when he personally hands a briefcase to Halgate and his CEO, watching her release to her young Arab friend. Logan is locked in the assassins vehicle as Halgate tells the assassin and the CEO that Amy and her maternal grandfather, her only other family, must be killed. Logan is one step ahead, as seconds later Halgate, the CEO and the assassin are killed by a bomb hidden in the briefcase with the documents. Father and daughter reunite at the airport.
Erased (2012 film)
2013