The story takes place in Venice at the turn of the 20th century. A young composer by the name of Caryl Dubrok (Gig Young) has a love affair with wealthy English heiress, Fenella MacLean (Eleanor Parker), until her parents by mistake start believing that Caryl is living with young widow Gemma Smith (Ida Lupino) and her infant baby. The MacLean family leaves Venice in a hurry and takes refuge at a safe distance up in the Dolomite mountains. It turns out that Gemma is really living with Caryls big brother Sebastian (Errol Flynn), who showed pity of the young lonely mother and let her stay with him. Sebastian is set on helping his brother explain the misunderstanding to the MacLeans. Caryl and Sebastian bring Gemma and her baby along on the trip into the mountains. They survive by singing in the streets for money, since both Caryl and Sebastian are aspiring composers and musicians. When Caryl hurts his foot one day, Gemma and Sebastian sing alone in the street, and encounter a very beautiful woman whom Sebastian instantly falls for. He is unaware that it is Fenella he has met in the street, and starts pursuing her while Gemma goes back to Caryl. With the inspiration Sebastian gets from Fenellas alluring beauty, he composes a music piece as the beginning of a ballet that same night. In the morning Gemma finds out that it was Fenella they met the night before. To avoid further misunderstandings, Gemma and Sebastian leave, marry and move to London. Sebastian continues working on the ballet he started in the mountains. A while later the MacLean family move back to London and Caryl follows them, taking a job as music agent. Caryl and Fenella are soon engaged to be married, but as soon as Sebastian is finished composing his ballet, Fenella arranges for him to perform his piece in London. When the ballet is a success, Sebastian and Fenella are again acquainted. Sebastian is so busy with rehearsing and perfecting his ballet that he neglects to take Gemma to the hospital when her baby is sick. Fenella gets caught up in her relationship with the young Sebastian and breaks off her engagement to Caryl. Fenella and Sebastian spend a weekend at the MacLeans country estate and become smitten by each other. While they are away, Gemmas baby dies from its illness and the devastated Gemma vanishes. After the weekend, when Sebastian comes back to London and finds his wife has disappeared, he is ridden by guilt, realizing how much she meant to him. Sebastian starts reworking the ballet, inspired by his love for Gemma, and when it is finished and has its first performance, Gemma comes back to watch it and reunite with Sebastian.
Escape Me Never (1947 film)
1947