The film begins in Hudson, Ohio in 2004, where Scott Thomas (Scott Mechlowicz) is dumped by his girlfriend, Fiona (Kristin Kreuk), immediately after his high school graduation. With his best friend, Cooper Harris (Jacob Pitts), Scott attends a graduation party that evening where the band performs a song detailing the affair Fiona was having with the bands singer (Matt Damon). Scott returns home drunk and angry and reads an e-mail from his German pen pal, Mieke (Jessica Boehrs), expressing sympathy for Scott and suggesting they meet in person. However, Scott has always misunderstood her name as "Mike", thinking that she is male. Cooper suggests that "Mike" may be a sexual predator, and Scott tells Mieke to stay away from him. Scotts younger brother informs him that "Mieke" is a common German girls name. Realizing his mistake, and that he has feelings for Mieke, Scott tries to contact her again, but finds that Mieke has blocked his email address. Scott decides to travel to Europe, with Cooper, to find Mieke and apologize in person. Scott and Cooper arrive in London, where they befriend a Manchester United football hooligan firm, led by Mad Maynard (Vinnie Jones). After a night of drinking, Scott and Cooper wake up on a bus on their way to Paris with the hooligans. In Paris, they meet up with their classmates Jenny and Jamie (Michelle Trachtenberg and Travis Wester), fraternal twins who are touring Europe together. Jenny and Jamie decide to accompany Scott and Cooper to find Mieke in Berlin. The group travels to Amsterdam, where Jamie is robbed while receiving oral sex in an alley, losing everyones money, passports and train tickets. They attempt to hitchhike to Berlin, but due to a language misunderstanding, they end up in Bratislava. Finding a great exchange rate with the U.S. dollar, the group goes to a nightclub. Drunk on absinthe, Jenny and Jamie make out with each other, witnessed by Scotty and Cooper, and are horrified when they realize what they are doing. The next day, a Slovak man drives them to Berlin, where they learn that Mieke has left with a summer tour group, and will be reachable in Rome for only a short time. Jamie sells his camera to afford plane tickets to Rome. In Rome, the group heads to the Vatican City, where Mieke is touring before her summer at sea. Inside the Vatican, Scott and Cooper search for Mieke, but accidentally ring the bell that signals the Pope has died. Scott appears on a balcony and spots Mieke in the crowd below. The Swiss Guards detain Scott and Cooper, but they are rescued by the Manchester United hooligans. Scott finally introduces himself to Mieke and confesses his love. Mieke is happy to see him, and they have sex in a confessional booth before she leaves on her trip. On the flight back to Ohio, Jenny and Cooper give into their urges and have sex in the planes lavatory, while Jamie stays in Europe being hired by Arthur Frommer. In the fall, Scott moves to Oberlin College. During a phone conversation with Cooper, who is now dating Jenny, Mieke knocks on his door, having been assigned to the same room due to misunderstanding about her name. They embrace and get into bed together.
EuroTrip
2004