Newly elected to Congress, former local television news reporter Evan Baxter (Steve Carell) leaves his hometown of Buffalo, New York and later moves to the fictional community of Prestige Crest, Virginia, where his congressional campaign officially declares that he will change the world. Evan prays to God (Morgan Freeman) to give him this opportunity. His wife, Joan (Lauren Graham), also prays that she, Evan and their three sons (Jimmy Bennett, Graham Phillips, and Johnny Simmons) will be closer together as a family. On his first day in Congress, Evan receives a letter from his greedy boss, Chuck Long (John Goodman), who provides him with a prime office, congressional staffers (Wanda Sykes, John Michael Higgins and Jonah Hill), and the opportunity to join Long as the junior co-sponsor to his Citizens Integration of Public Lands Act (CINPLAN) bill. Over the next several days, strange events in Evans life occur: Eight vacant lots in Prestige Crest are purchased under his name, and ancient tools and gopher wood are delivered there. Animals start follow Evan around even into Congress. He uncontrollably starts growing a beard that wont go away no matter how many times he shaves. The number 614 starts appearing throughout his daily routines. Evan comes to realize that this number actually refers to the verse in the Book of Genesis, where God instructs Noah to build an Ark in preparation for a flood. Although Evan initially rejects this idea, God himself starts appearing to Evan in various guises, assuring him a flood is coming and the only way Evan can save the world will be to save his community instead. Evan decides to start building the ark with the tools and materials provided, giving him an opportunity to get closer to his sons, though Joan sees this as a mid-life crisis. Evan still maintains his work in Congress, but his appearance and the animals that keep following him start to become disruptive. God reappears and provides Evan a robe, though warns him the flood will come mid-day on September 22. When Evan dons the robe, he finds he is unable to wear any other clothes, the robe seemingly displacing anything else he wears. Outraged by Evans slothful appearance, Long fires him and his name removed from the bill. Evan suspects God had him fired to spend more time on the ark, and continues to do so, becoming a public spectacle and of ridicule. Believing that Evan has gone insane, Joan leaves him, although she encounters God in disguise as a waiter at a diner. After hearing her concern about Evans mental state, God assures Joan that she should see this as an opportunity for the entire family to get closer to each other. Joan is inspired and finally returns to help Evan finish the ark. As September 22 nears, more people have come out in support of Evans project, including the staffers he had. One shows Evan researches that he had found on Long, specifically that he had built Prestige Crest after damming off a nearby water source, but Long had cut many corners in building the dam. The staffers suspect Long would do the same with the Public Land Act Bill. On September 22, with the ark complete, the police attempt to destroy the ark with a wrecking ball, as it violates land codes. As animals start to amass near the ark, and rain falls, Evan realizes that the flood will be a result of Longs dam failing, destroying Prestige Crest. He warns the onlookers to either evacuate or get aboard the ark as he loads his family and the gathered animals aboard. The dam indeed breaks, destroying all the houses of Prestige Crest, but Evans foresight saves all the lives there. The ark later washes through the streets of Washington D.C. and comes to its final destination in front of the Capitol during the vote of the Public Land Act Bill, interrupting it. This results Evan accuses Longs cost-cutting for the dams failure, leading to the other members of Congress voting against the bill. Long is being put under investigation for his profiteering and ethics, while the animals are returned to their natural habitats. Evan is finally reinstated in Congress, all the changes forced on him by God no longer remaining. While going on a hike, Evan re-encounters God, and expresses concern that he did not need to build the ark to show the problem with Longs dam, but God retorts that Evans life is now perfect as he prayed for, being closer to his family and having changed the world for the better through his one Act of Random Kindness (ARK). During the films closing credits, God issues a new commandment to the outgoing audience: "Thou shalt do the dance." This is later followed by footage showing the films cast and crew members dancing to C+C Music Factorys hit song "Gonna Make You Sweat (Everybody Dance Now)."
Evan Almighty
2007