The year is 1932, during the Great Depression, Yankee Irving (Jake T. Austin) is a young baseball fan, whose father Stanley (Mandy Patinkin) works as a custodian for Yankee Stadium. While the two are on the premises, a thief steals Babe Ruths famous bat Darlin (Whoopi Goldberg), with the result that Yankee’s father is blamed and temporarily dismissed until Darlin can be found, as result Stanley also blames Yankee for stealing it and for setting him up. The true thief is Lefty Maginnis (William H. Macy), a cheating pitcher for the Chicago Cubs. Lefty works for the Cubs general manager Napoleon Cross (Robin Williams), who desires to see the Cubs defeat the Yankees during the 1932 World Series. Stealing the bat back, Yankee decides to return it to Babe Ruth and thereby clear his father’s name by journeying across the country to Chicago, where the next World Series games will be played. Darlin is able to speak, as does her counterpart Screwie (Rob Reiner), a baseball, who she constantly argues and bickers with (though near the end, they finally become friends). Much of the plot is driven by Leftys comic attempts to steal back the bat from Yankee, with slapstick results. Other scenes involve Yankee meeting others who will help him in his quest: several hobos (Ron Tippe, Richard Kind & Ed Helms); Marti (Raven-Symone), an African American girl; her baseball player father Lonnie “The Rooster” Brewster (Forest Whitaker); and in Chicago, Babe Ruth himself (Brian Dennehy). A series of improbable coincidences allows Yankee himself to bat for the Yankees, resulting in the archetypal home run (technically, a series of errors after an infield pop-up that allow him to round the bases). This restores the morale of the Yankees, who score 7 more runs to take the lead and win the World Series. Cross tries to talk Babe Ruth out of accepting the victory, saying that Yankee is too young to be a counting player. This leads to the arrest of Cross, who simply says that he was a fan that cheated. When his part in the plan is revealed, Lefty is banished from the team, also arrested as well and Stanley is cleared and officially reinstated as the stadium’s custodian
Everyone's Hero
2006