In the 19th century, a Grande Dame summons The Brothers Grimm to her palace; the brothers discuss their interpretation of the Cinderella story. She shows them a glass slipper and tells them the story of Danielle de Barbarac. In 16th-century France, Auguste de Barbarac is a widower and the father of eight-year-old Danielle. Auguste marries Rodmilla de Ghent, a haughty baroness with two daughters, Marguerite and Jacqueline. Auguste gives Danielle a copy of Thomas Mores Utopia. Two weeks later, Auguste dies of a heart attack. By the time Danielle is eighteen, the estate has fallen into decline, and Danielle is forced to be a servant to Rodmilla and her daughters. One day, Danielle stops a man from stealing her fathers horse, but then realizes he is Prince Henry. He buys her silence with gold because he is fleeing an arranged marriage to the Spanish Princess Gabriella. But he is caught after he recovers and returns the Mona Lisa, which had been stolen by gypsies, to Leonardo da Vinci. Meanwhile, in order to buy back the servant Maurice using the gold Henry gave her, Danielle dresses as a noblewoman but is warned that she will be severely punished if discovered. Henry overhears Danielle arguing with the Cargomaster and orders Maurices release. Henry insistently begs for Danielle’s name until she finally gives him the name of her deceased mother, Nicole de Lancret, with the added title of comtesse (countess). King Francis tells Henry that he is throwing a masquerade ball, where he must choose a bride or wed Gabriella. Rodmilla schemes to marry Marguerite to Henry. While Danielle is talking to her friend Gustave, Henry rides up and asks for directions; she runs and hides. Gustave tells Henry where Danielle lives. Danielle runs home, changes clothes, and spends the day with Henry. They share their first kiss. Later, Danielle catches Rodmilla and Marguerite stealing her mothers dress and slippers. Rodmilla discovers that Danielle is the Countess whom Henry is interested in; she lies and tells Queen Marie that Danielle is engaged. Meanwhile, Danielle meets with Henry to tell him the truth, but he interrupts her and reveals to her that she has transformed his life and given him a sense of purpose. Later, Rodmilla locks Danielle in the pantry but Da Vinci helps free her, and makes her a pair of wings to wear to the ball with her mothers dress and slippers. When Danielle arrives at the ball and tries again to tell Henry the truth, Rodmilla exposes her identity. Henry angrily rejects her; Danielle bursts into tears and runs away, leaving her glass slipper behind. Da Vinci finds the slipper and sternly reprimands Henry, leaving him with the slipper. Henry decides to wed Gabriella, but calls the wedding off after realizing he still loves Danielle. He discovers that Rodmilla has sold Danielle to landowner Pierre le Pieu. Pierre makes sexual advances towards Danielle, but frees her after she threatens him with his own weapons. Henry finds her and proposes to her by placing the glass slipper on her foot. King Francis accuses Rodmilla of lying to Queen Marie about Danielle. Queen Marie strips Rodmilla of her title. Danielle is introduced as Henrys wife, and per her request, Rodmilla and Marguerite are sent to work as servants in the palace laundry. After Da Vinci gives Henry and Danielle a painting, the newlyweds share a kiss. The Grande Dame informs The Brothers Grimm that Danielle was her great-great-grandmother.
Ever After
1998