In the woods, several men capture a frightened girl and tie her up in a cellar. It is then revealed that she is possessed, and her father immolates her and shoots her in the head. Some time later, David and his girlfriend Natalie arrive at a cabin in the woods, where the pair meet up with his younger sister Mia and his friends Eric and Olivia. The group plans to stay in the cabin while Mia overcomes her addiction to heroin. It is later revealed that David moved to Chicago years before, leaving Mia to care for their dying mother. The group discover the cellar, littered with rotting animal corpses, a shotgun, and a book called the Naturom Demonto. Eric, having some knowledge of witchcraft, begins studying the book. Despite written warnings, he reads aloud an incantation and awakens a malevolent force that finds Mia standing outside alone. Mia begins seeing a bloody girl in the woods, and begs the group to leave because she is scared. They refuse, believing that she is simply experiencing the effects of withdrawal. Mia steals the car keys and drives away from the cabin, but a mysterious girl causes her to crash in a swamp. Emerging from the mud, the demonic girl chases Mia through the woods. Mia stumbles into a circular opening to a thorn bush and becomes entangled by possessed vines. The girl, a demonic form of Mia, emits a black tar-like thorn vine from her mouth that slithers into Mia, and possesses her. David and Olivia find Mia and take her back to the cabin. Later, David finds his murdered dog along with a bloodied hammer, and goes to confront Mia, who is in the shower. In the bathroom, he sees her scalding herself in the shower. David tries to drive her to a hospital, but heavy rains flood the only road back. Meanwhile, Eric becomes more and more convinced that the book is the cause of all that. That night, the possessed Mia comes into the living room with a shotgun and shoots David in the arm as a strong wind blows through the cabin, and Mia warns the others that they are all going to die tonight, after which she passes out. David instructs Olivia to get the gun away from Mia, but before she can, Mia wakes up and overpowers her, then projectile vomits blood all over her face. Olivia manages to shove Mia off, sending her tumbling down into the cellar where she is locked in by Eric. Olivia goes to the bathroom to clean herself and to get a sedative for Mia, but is terrified when she sees her own disfigured reflection in the mirror. The mirror explodes, and Olivia tries to rush back to the others, but becomes frozen and possessed in the process. Eric finds her cutting into her cheek with a mirror shard behind the shower curtain. Olivia attacks and wounds Eric, who grabs a broken piece of the sink and bludgeons her to death. In the shed, David nurses Erics wounds, and Eric confides that he believes that when he read the book, it released "something evil". Meanwhile, Mia lures Natalie into the cellar, where she bites her hand. Natalie tries to attack Mia with a box cutter, but Mia takes it from her and uses the blade to split her own tongue in half, before planting a bloodied kiss on Natalies mouth. David opens the trapdoor, interrupting the assault and allowing Natalie to escape. After the demon tells him that Mia no longer exists, he chains it up and locks the cellar door. Eric explains to David that, according to the Naturom Demonto, the Taker of Souls must claim five souls in order to unleash the Abomination. In the kitchen, while cleaning the bite wound, Natalie becomes convinced that her arm is infected and proceeds to amputate it with an electric knife. David does his best to patch up her wounded arm, while Eric continues to explain that Mia must be "purified" either by live burial, bodily dismemberment, or burning. As they debate, the possessed Natalie attacks the pair with a nail gun, but David manages to shoot off her remaining arm with the shotgun, purifying but bleeding her to death. David plans to burn down the cabin with Mia in it. However, as Mia starts singing a song from their childhood, he has a change of mind and decides to bury her instead. He digs a grave, then enters the cellar to subdue Mia, who attempts to drown him. Eric intervenes and knocks Mia out, but not before being fatally stabbed. David proceeds to sedate and bury Mia, unearthing and defibrillating her afterwards, which causes the demon to be exorcized and heals her. The siblings reconcile. As David enters the cabin to retrieve the car keys, a possessed Eric stabs him in the neck with barb wire cutters. David locks Mia outside and shoots a gasoline can, killing Eric and himself. With five souls now claimed, the Abomination arises and blood rains from the sky. As Mia battles the Abomination, she is forced to tear her own hand off after it is trapped under a car. She then halves the Abomination with a chainsaw. Its corpse sinks into the ground and the blood-rain stops. Mia escapes into the woods and wanders off into the distance. Unbeknownst to her, the Naturom Demonto is still intact. In a post-credits scene, a silhouetted Ash Williams says "Groovy" and looks at the camera before it cuts to black.
Evil Dead (2013 film)
2013