Lieutenant Colonel Austin Travis leads an unsuccessful Special Forces raid on a Chechen mafia safe house in Italy to recover a stolen Soviet nerve agent, DZ-5. Shortly after, Oceanic Airlines Flight 343 leaves Athens, Greece, bound for Washington, with U.S. Senator Mavros onboard. Nagi Hassan, lieutenant of the imprisoned terrorist leader El Sayed Jaffa, and his men hijack the flight, demanding Jaffas release. Dr. David Grant, a United States Naval Academy graduate and now a consultant for the U.S. Armys intelligence community, joins a team led by Travis to intercept the plane. After listening to Hassans demands, Grant disbelieves that Hassan wants Jaffa released. Instead, he thinks Hassan engineered Jaffas capture and plans to use the plane to detonate a bomb loaded with the DZ-5 gas over U.S. airspace in a suicide mission. The Pentagon authorizes a mid-air transfer of an Army special operations team onto the hijacked airliner using an experimental version of the F-117 stealth aircraft. Grant and DARPA engineer Dennis Cahill accompany the team. The boarding is only partially successful. When a commando, "Cappy," is seriously injured with a broken neck, Grant boards to assist Cappy. The Oceanic Airlines 747 pulls up, though, putting too much stress on the boarding sleeve. Unable to board, Travis sacrifices himself by closing the 747s hatch before the stealth craft is torn off and desintegrates in midair. The survivors enter the 747s lower deck, but with half their equipment and no communication, leaving the Pentagon unaware of their survival. With limited options, the commandos search for the supposed bomb. Grant makes contact with a flight attendant, Jean, and recruits her despite Hassans suspicions. U.S. officials release Jaffa to resolve the situation. Meanwhile, the team locates the bomb, and despite his injuries Cappy guides Cahill in disarming it. The remaining team readies to take control of the aircraft, when Cappy discovers that the bombs arming device has an additional, remote-controlled trigger. Jaffa calls Hassan from a private jet, telling him he is free and on his way to Algeria, but Hassan will not be swayed from his plan. Grant realizes Hassans men dont know about the bomb and his true intentions, which means that one of the passengers is a sleeper agent and the trigger man for the bomb. Jean spots a man with an electronic device and informs Grant. Mavros is called to speak to the President of the United States, only to realize he is to be sacrificed as a warning that Hassan is serious, and is shot by Hassan. Meanwhile, the soldiers use the planes taillights via Morse code to signal U.S. Navy F-14 Tomcat fighter jets that they are on board and not to shoot them down. Grant and Jean enter the passenger cabin and take the suspected individual by surprise, but he turns out to be the wrong target. Grant spots the real sleeper: Jean-Paul Demou, the man who built the bomb. Hassan attempts to fire at Grant, but is shot by an onboard federal air marshal, and the commandos storm the cabin, where a firefight ensues. Stray bullets break passenger windows, causing explosive decompression which blows several passengers and Demou out of the plane. The subordinate terrorists are killed during the exchange, the bomb is disarmed, and the plane regains its stability. In a last act of desperation, a seriously wounded Hassan kills both pilots, hoping the bomb will detonate if the plane crashes, before wounded commando "Rat" kills him. Grant assumes control of the 747 and attempts to land it at Washington Dulles International Airport despite his limited piloting experience. He misses the approach, forcing him to pull the plane back up to circle around and try again. As the plane begins to climb, Grant recognizes the area surrounding Frederick Field, where he normally practices flying. Deciding to land the 747 there, with Jeans assistance Grant makes a sloppy but safe landing into a sand berm at the runways overrun area, where emergency workers are able to safely evacuate the remaining passengers. The film concludes with Grant being saluted by Rat and the team for his leadership. He is then summoned by the Pentagon and invites Jean to accompany him.
Executive Decision
1996