A narrator states that, when asked about the Kennedy Assassination and the Warren Commission report, President Lyndon Johnson said he doubted the Commissions findings. The narration ends by mentioning that the segment did not run on television, and was cut from a program about Johnson at his own request. At a gathering in June 1963, shadowy industrial, political and former US intelligence figures discuss their growing dissatisfaction with the Kennedy administration. In the plush surroundings of lead conspirator Robert Foster (Robert Ryan), he and the others try to persuade Harold Ferguson (Will Geer), a powerful oil magnate dressed in white, to back their plans for an assassination of Kennedy. He remains unconvinced, saying, "I dont like such schemes. Theyre only tolerable when necessary, and only permissible when they work". James Farrington (Burt Lancaster), a black-ops specialist, is also among the group: He shows Ferguson and others that a careful assassination of a U.S. President can be done under certain conditions, and refers to the murders of Abraham Lincoln, James Garfield, and William McKinley as examples, and includes assassination attempts of others including Roosevelt in 1933, referring to the practice as "executive action". In the Mojave Desert, a hit squad practices shooting moving targets at medium-to-long range. One of the shooters says that he can only guarantee the operations success if he fires at a target moving below 15 miles per hour. The lead conspirators, Farrington and Foster, discuss preparations for the assassination. Obtaining Fergusons approval is crucial to the conspirators, although Farrington proceeds to organize two shooting teams in anticipation that Ferguson will change his mind. Ferguson, meanwhile, watches news reports and becomes highly concerned at Kennedys increasingly "liberal" direction: action on civil rights, the adoption of the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, and nuclear disarmament. The decisive moment comes in an anti-Kennedy news report on the deteriorating situation in South Vietnam. It is followed by Kennedys October 1963 decision (National Security Action Memorandum #263) to withdraw all US advisers from Vietnam by the end of 1965, effectively ending Americas direct involvement in the Vietnam War. Ferguson calls Foster and tells him he now supports their project. Foster and Farrington discuss their murky, paranoid fears about the future of the country under Kennedy, and the security of ruling-class white people around the world. Foster forecasts the population of the world in 2000 at 7 billion, the majority of them non-white and "swarming out of their breeding grounds into Europe and North America". He sees victory in Vietnam as an opportunity to control the developing world and reduce its population to 550 million, adding that they can then apply the same "birth-control" methods to unwanted groups in the US: poor whites, Asians, blacks and Latinos. Foster, it seems, is privy to plans known to the CIA, or perhaps knowledge of even more secret information unknown to Ferguson, a civilian. The scene of the shooting is described. As news of the assassination reaches the conspirators, the film surveys its effects. Farrington and his assistant discuss the fallout from the assassination, in particular how they should deal with the fact that Oswald has survived. Farrington contacts nightclub owner Jack Ruby, who stalks and kills Oswald. While the real assassins leave Dallas, the conspirators work to cover up the evidence. They discuss the political fallout in Washington, D.C., concerned about retribution from Robert F. Kennedy and the "believability" of the plot. Foster states that "Bobby Kennedy is not thinking as Attorney General but as a grieving brother. By the time he recovers it will be too late". The conspirators agree that people will believe in the story because "they want to believe the story". Soon after, Foster receives a call from Farringtons assistant: Farrington has died of a heart attack "at Parkland Hospital". The conspirators are now insulated from the link to the group that committed the killings. Their work is not quite finished. A photo collage of 18 material witnesses is shown, all but two of whom, the film states, died of unnatural causes within three years of the assassination. A voice-over says that an actuary of the British newspaper The Sunday Times calculated the probability that all these people who witnessed the assassination would die within that period of time to be 100,000-trillion-to-one.
Executive Action (film)
1973