A teletype message flashes across the screen... Master Sergeant Larry McRose, U.S. Army, Frankfurt, West Germany Report to Zombie Unit, El Paso, Texas At the airport in El Paso, Texas, five U.S. Army sergeants meet up with Major Paul Hackett (Michael Ironside), the leader of the clandestine Zombie Unit, composed of soldiers reported to be killed-in-action and on temporary assignment under Hackett for the duration of a secret mission. Jack Benteen (Nick Nolte) is a tough Texas Ranger. His best friend from high school is Cash Bailey (Powers Boothe), a former police informer who has crossed into Mexico and became a major drug trafficker. Bailey tries to bribe Benteen to look the other way while sending major drug shipments to the U.S. When Benteen refuses, he is left with a warning by Bailey: Look the other way, or die trying. Benteen and his friend, Sheriff Hank Pearson (Rip Torn), end up getting in a shootout with Baileys men at a gas station outside of town, resulting in Pearsons death. Benteen infers that Bailey set them up. Two of Baileys men try to escape, but Hackett has them killed by not leaving any witnesses, and after they tried to steal his vehicle. Accompanied by a DEA agent, Zombie Unit arrives in town tracking Bailey. When they attempt to rob a local bank, one soldier is killed and two others are caught and detained by Benteen. After realizing the men are listed as dead in all official records, Benteen is confronted by the D.E.A. agent spearheading the operation, who tells them him they were robbing the bank in order to get Baileys money and a safety deposit box containing accounts on all the drug money hes deposited there. Now knowing the full story, Benteen joins with the soldiers and crosses the border into Mexico to track down Bailey and end his drug running. At Baileys hacienda, they are joined Benteens girlfriend Sarita, who was once Baileys woman and has followed Benteen into Mexico. At an Independence Day festival, Benteen confronts Bailey while the soldiers attack Baileys private army. Hackett is witnessed shooting Baileys accountant and, at the same time, revealing himself to be Baileys partner, who tells one of his men there was no mission, and that they were assigned to die. The town erupts into a gunfight, which few but Benteen and Sarita survive. Hackett and his men get killed in the process. Benteen and Bailey end up in an old west-style showdown, which results in Bailey getting shot to death, rather than surrender. Baileys right-hand man, Lupo, takes over the drug business and tells Benteen hell do him a favor some day, while Benteen and Sarita walk away towards an uncertain future.
Extreme Prejudice (film)
1987