FBI Special Agent Sean Archer (John Travolta) survives an assassination attempt by freelance domestic terrorist and homicidal sociopath Castor Troy (Nicolas Cage), but the bullet penetrates Archers chest and strikes his son Michael, killing the boy. Six years later, Archers vendetta against Troy culminates in his teams ambush of Troy and his younger brother/accomplice Pollux (Alessandro Nivola) at Los Angeles International Airport. Troy goads Archer with knowledge of a bomb located somewhere in the city set to go off in a few days, but he is knocked into an irreversible coma before Archer can learn more. Archer affirms the threat is real, but is unable to convince Pollux to reveal where the bomb is located. At the suggestion of his partner Tito Biondi (Robert Wisdom) and Special Ops specialist Dr. Hollis Miller (C. C. H. Pounder), Archer secretly undergoes a highly experimental face transplant procedure by Dr. Malcolm Walsh (Colm Feore) to take on Troys face. voice and appearance. Archer is taken to the same high-security prison where Pollux is being held, and slowly convinces Pollux that he is Troy, gaining information on the bombs location. Meanwhile, Troy incredibly awakens from his coma and discovers his face missing. He calls his gang, and they force Dr. Walsh to transplant Archers face onto him. Troy visits the prison and surprises Archer. He taunts his nemesis with how he burned down Dr. Walshs lab with Walsh, Biondi and Miller inside to eliminate all the evidence of their transplant and will take over Archers life. He leaves Archer to languish while he convinces Pollux to "reveal" the bombs location in exchange for release from prison. Disarming his bomb in a dramatic fashion, Troy-as-Archer gains respect from Archers fellow FBI colleagues. Troy-as-Archer gets close to Archers family who Archer had neglected over during his vendetta: he romances his wife Eve (Joan Allen) and rescues his daughter Jamie (Dominique Swain) from an abusive boyfriend. Archer-as-Troy escapes after staging a riot and retreats to Troys headquarters. There, Archer-as-Troy meets Sasha (Gina Gershon), the sister of Troys primary drug kingpin, and her son Adam who reminds Archer of Michael. Archer-as-Troy learns that Adam is Troys son, who he once had planned to put under foster care. Troy-as-Archer learns of Archers escape and hastily assembles a team to raid his headquarters. The raid quickly turns into a bloodbath, killing numerous FBI agents and several members of Troys gang, including Pollux; Archer-as-Troy, Sasha, and Adam are able to escape. Archers supervisor, Director Victor Lazarro (Harve Presnell) blames Troy-as-Archer for the numerous slayings. Troy-as-Archer, furious over Polluxs death, kills Lazarro and makes it look like a heart attack. Troy-as-Archer is promoted to Acting Director as plans are made for Lazarros funeral. Archer-as-Troy finds safety for Sasha and Adam and approaches Eve. He persuades her to take a sample of Troy-as-Archers blood and his own to compare their blood types at the hospital where she works as a doctor to prove he is the real Archer. Convinced of her husbands identity, she tells him that Troy-as-Archer will be vulnerable at Lazarros funeral. At the ceremony, Archer-as-Troy finds that Troy-as-Archer has anticipated his actions and takes Eve hostage. Sasha arrives, and a gunfight ensues; Sasha manages to save Eve after taking a bullet. Before she dies, Archer-as-Troy promises to take care of Adam for her and not allow him to grow up in a life of crime. Troy-as-Archer flees the church with Archer-as-Troy pursuing him. After killing two more federal agents, Troy-as-Archer briefly takes Jamie hostage, but she escapes by stabbing him with a butterfly knife that Archer-as-Troy had given her for self-defense. A speedboat chase ensues wherein Archer-as-Troy forces Troy-as-Archer to shore by collision, then bests Troy-as-Archer in a melee fight. Troy mutilates his/Archers face to taunt him, but Archer kills Troy with a spear gun. Backup agents arrive and address Archer by name, having been convinced by Eve of Archers true identity. After the face transplant surgery is undone, Archer returns home, adopting Adam into his family and keeping his promise to Sasha.
Face/Off
1997