The film is framed by Edie Sedgwick (Sienna Miller) being interviewed in a hospital several years after her time as an Andy Warhol superstar. In the mid 1960s, Edie is a young heiress studying art in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She moves to New York City with her friend, Chuck Wein (Jimmy Fallon). She is introduced to pop art painter and film-maker Andy Warhol (Guy Pearce), who is intrigued by the beautiful, clearly troubled socialite. He asks her to perform in one of his underground, experimental films. She agrees and goes on to star in several of Andys projects, becoming his muse. She and Chuck become part of the tightly-knit, bohemian social scene at Andys famous art studio, the Silver Factory. Edies status as a Warhol superstar and rising youthquake fashion model earn her fame and international attention. The success, however, fails to ease her psychological issues. Although descended from a prestigious family lineage and raised on an idyllic, California ranch, Edie was sexually abused by her father during childhood. She has been further shaken by the fairly recent death of her favorite brother, Minty. Her trauma manifests itself in uncontrolled spending, poor money management and a burgeoning drug habit. Edies Cambridge friend, Syd (Shawn Hatosy), visits her in New York City and introduces her to folk singer Billy Quinn (Hayden Christensen), a character based on Bob Dylan. Edie and Billy begin a relationship, which causes Andy to become jealous. Edie attempts to make peace between the two men by arranging a screen test for Billy at Andys Factory. When Billy and his posse arrive, they act disrespectfully towards Andy. Billy and Edie fight and he tells her that Andy is a "bloodsucker" who will "kill" her. She tearfully responds that that she "cant hate him." Realizing that she has chosen Andy over him, Billy leaves her. Edies worsening drug addiction begins taking its toll. Her relationship with Andy deteriorates and she becomes a pariah among the Factory crowd. One night, while in a drug-induced stupor, she falls asleep with a lit cigarette and nearly dies in the ensuing apartment fire. Vogue, which once championed her as the newest "it" girl, now refuses to hire her; editor Diana Vreeland (Illeana Douglas) explains that Edie is considered "vulgar" due to her current lifestyle. When Syd visits Edie again, she is barely conscious and is being filmed naked by three strangers in her apartment. Syd kicks the men out and looks after Edie. He gets them a taxi and shows her a photo of herself back in Cambridge. He says she inspired him back then and she can be an artist once more. Edie, deeply upset at how far shes fallen, gets out of their cab and runs frantically down the street. The scene transitions to the framing device of Edies interview several years later. She tells the interviewer that she is overcoming her addiction, pursuing art again and is glad to be home in Santa Barbara, California. The closing caption explains that Edie spent her last few years struggling to remain clean. Her short marriage to a fellow patient ended when she died of a barbiturate overdose at the age of twenty-eight. Meanwhile, in New York City, Andy is interviewed the day after Edie died in 1971. When the interviewer asks about her and Andys "breakup," Andy becomes visibly uncomfortable and says it was so long ago and he hardly knew her at all.
Factory Girl (film)
2006