In 1883, the Boston, Massachusetts, company that owns the full-rigged sailing ship Gerrymander gives the ships captain, Captain Boll, six months to show a profit for the company in the Gerrymanders operations in the Netherlands East Indies. Facing both pirates and a trade exclusion policy that prevents him from carrying goods between ports in the islands, Boll looks for a way for the Gerrymander to make money. On Java, Boll encounters an Indonesian in Soerabaja whose life he once saved. The Indonesian tells Boll that native divers salvaged a fortune in diamonds from the sunken ship Pieterzoon, contrary to legend which says the diamonds were lost. The Indonesian directs Boll to a Chinese junk captain who has cargo that will lead Boll to the diamonds. Upon contacting the junk captain, Boll discovers that the "cargo" actually is a woman named Kim Kim who knows the whereabouts of the diamonds. Kim Kim had been a dancer at the palace of the sultan, but the Chinese had taken her as a slave. Boll violates anti-slavery laws by buying her from the junk captain and smuggles her aboard the Gerrymander. Flint, the Gerrymanders first mate, discovers Kim Kim aboard the ship and finds out that Boll had purchased her; he blackmails Boll, threatening to turn Boll in to the Dutch authorities if Boll does not give him half the diamonds when they are found. Posing as the naturalized Dutch citizen "Saint" Ebenezer, the pirate Pulo Besar also becomes aware that Kim Kim is aboard the Gerrymander. He tips off the authorities. They search the Gerrymander but do not find Kim Kim, who is hiding in a half-filled vat of water. Later, however, the Gerrymanders crew discovers her. Boll insists that they treat her well, but first he has to fight one of his sailors, Reeder, in order to protect her. Boll constantly questions Kim Kim about the diamonds. At first, this angers her, but when he confides in her, telling her that he is impoverished but dreams of one day owning his own ship, she has a change of heart and decides to help him. She tells him that the diamonds are on what she calls the island of the fire god, Vishnu, which she visited as a child. Meanwhile, Flint incites the Gerrymanders crew against Boll by claiming that Kim Kims presence aboard the ship has made Boll mentally unbalanced, and he leads a mutiny against Boll. When the mutinous crew confronts Boll, Boll offers the crew Flints half of the fortune if they leave him in command of the Gerrymander. They agree, and the mutiny comes to an end. Flint is imprisoned. The Gerrymander sails on in search of Vishnus island. Boll and Kim Kim become romantically attracted to one another, but Kim Kim harbors a fear that Vishnu will become angry if Boll attempts to recover the diamonds from the island. Meanwhile, Besar and his pirates attack and seize control of the Gerrymander. The pirates take the Gerrymander and her crew to Besars headquarters, on an island where he maintains an exquisite palace with servants and dancing girls. Besar has Boll imprisoned separately from his crew. In an attempt to get her to reveal the location of the diamonds, the pirates whip Kim Kim and show her that her mother, Bintang, is a prisoner of Besars and has been broken by torture and imprisonment. Loyal to Boll, Kim Kim refuses to tell them anything about the diamonds. Giving up on torturing Kim Kim, Besar instead threatens to kill Boll unless she helps him find the diamonds. She agrees in order to save Bolls life. Flint and two other sailors from the Gerrymander also offer to cooperate with Besar in finding the diamonds. Besar, his pirates, Kim Kim, Flint, and the two other sailors from the Gerrymander set sail for Vishnus island in Besars pirate ship. Meanwhile, the crewmen of the Gerrymander escape and set Boll free. They take back control of the Gerrymander from the pirates and set out in the Gerrymander in pursuit of Besar. To keep Besar from losing them during a moonless night, Boll and two of his men ride ahead of the Gerrymander in a longboat and send signals back to the Gerrymander to allow her to remain on Besars tail. While they are doing this, one of the Gerrymanders sailors aboard Besars ship, Wilson, sneaks off the ship and swims to Boll after overhearing where Besar is heading. Wilsons information allows Boll and his crew to identify Vishnus island as Krakatoa. Besars ship and the Gerrymander both approach Krakatoa the following morning and find the islands volcano erupting. Despite their fear of the volcano, both the Gerrymanders men and Besars pirates go ashore and climb the mountain, with each party racing the other to be the first get to a temple at the mouth of the volcano where the diamonds supposedly have been hidden. During the climb, Boll spots Kim Kim on the shore below. As the eruption becomes more powerful and lava begins to flow down the mountainside, Boll and the crew of the Gerrymander decide that the situation has become too dangerous for them to continue their climb to the diamonds; instead, they rescue Kim Kim, return to the Gerrymander, and head out to sea. Besar and his men also soon give up on finding the diamonds and put to sea in their own ship to flee the volcano. Boll expects the eruption to generate a huge tsunami, so he orders his crew to set the sea anchor and turns the Gerrymander toward Krakatoa to ride out the wave, which she successfully does. Besar instead makes the mistake of trying to outrun the tsunami, which capsizes his ship. He and his crew drown. The eruption destroys Krakatoa, ending hopes of recovering the diamonds, but Boll tells the Gerrymanders crew that there is a 100,000-guilder bounty on Besar, which they will earn by handing Besars island over to the Dutch authorities. In his capacity as captain of the ship, Boll then marries himself to Kim Kim on the deck of the Gerrymander as his crew looks on.
Fair Wind to Java
1953