Kathryn "Kate" McQuean (Cindy Crawford) is a Miami lawyer who, in the course of a divorce proceeding, attempts to seize a 157-foot freighter docked off the Florida coast in lieu of unpaid alimony. The freighter, which is owned by criminal Emilio Juantorena (Miguel Sandoval), is the current base of operations of Ilya Pavel Kazak (Steven Berkoff), a former KGB agent who has become an international money laundering expert, and has also become the leader of a group of rogue KGB members, including Stefan (Gustav Vintas), Leonide "Hacker" Volkov (Paul Dillon), Navigator (Marc Macaulay), Rosa (Jenette Goldstein) and Zhukov (Olek Krupa). When Kate is unintentionally hit by a stray bullet, Miami detective Max Kirkpatrick (William Baldwin) is assigned to the case. Then an attempt is made on Kates life by Kazak, who — after killing Juantorena — assembles his team into tracking and killing Kate; Max then becomes her protector. Kate, Max, and two of his colleagues stay at a hotel. They order pizza, but Volkov traces the order, and Rosa and two henchmen infiltrate the hotel and kill Maxs colleagues. Max manages to kill the whole hit squad (except Rosa) and he and Kate then leave. After Max contacts his superior, Lt. Meyerson (Christopher McDonald), FBI agents are sent to escort them. The "agents" turn out to be henchmen working for Kazak, and Maxs partner and long-time friend Detective Louis Aragon (John Bedford Lloyd) is killed in the process. After killing some of Kazaks men, Max and Kate travel throughout Florida, trying to avoid Kazak and find out why he wants Kate dead. However, their jeep breaks down on a freeway and they call a tow truck to come pick them up. Volkov and Stefan show up to kill them, while Kazak splits from them to deal with Maxs cousin, who has been feeding them information regarding Kazak and his past activities in Cuba. Kate and Max are forced to run with the tow truck while their jeep is still hooked onto it. After a long chase and gunfight, Kate steps hard on the brakes while Max steers the wheel of the truck, unhooking their car and causing it to crash into Volkovs and Stefans SUV, killing both of them. One of Kates clients is the ex-wife of Emilio Juantorena, and she is trying to repossess the boat to pay for her divorce settlement. She stumbled on something about the ship and is the main reason why Kazak and his crew put a target on Kate. Regardless, Kazak has kidnapped Kate and taken her to the freighter while Rosa and Zhukov are sent to kill Max. They accidentally kill the Navigator and Max shoots both of them. Rosa, however, has a bulletproof vest on, and Max only kills her after a long fight. Max then boards the freighter in an attempt to rescue Kate. Max and Kate blow up the freighter, killing Kazak. They jump off of the boat just in time to watch it blow up and sink. They climb aboard the boat Kirkpatrick used to reach the freighter and start to kiss passionately. As the sun sets they ride off together.
Fair Game (1995 film)
1995