This cartoon opens with the title credits over the strains of “Down by the Riverside”, then into an extended series of establishing shots of an Army Air Force base, to the brassy strains of “We’re in to Win” (a World War II song also sung by Daffy Duck in Scrap Happy Daffy two months before). The sign at the base reads "U.S. Army Air Field", and below that is shown the location, the number of planes and number of men, all marked "Censored" as a reference to military secrecy. Beneath those categories, the sign reads "What men think of top sergeant", which is shown with a large white-on-black "CENSORED!!", as the language implied would not pass scrutiny by the Hays Office. Bugs is found reclining on a piece of ordnance next to a bomber plane, idly reading Victory Thru Hare Power (a spoof of the 1942 book) and laughing uproariously at the books claim that gremlins wreck American planes through "di-a-bo-lick-al saa-boh-tay-jee." He immediately encounters one of the creatures, which is using an oversized mallet to strike the unfused nose of Bugs bomb to the tune of "Ive Been Working on the Railroad". Bugs casually asks the gremlin after his business, and the gremlin replies that perfect precision is necessary to ensure the denotation of blockbuster bombs such as the one in question. Noticing the gremlins lack of success, Bugs offers to help him, but after taking the mallet and raising it in preparation to strike the bomb, Bugs suddenly comes to his senses and refrains from following through, just milliseconds from striking it, screaming "WHAT AM I DOING?!" as he does so. He then ponders if the creature in question were a gremlin, and the gremlin replies with a shout: "It aint Vendell Villkie!" After confusing Bugs by tying his ears, the gremlin hits his foot with a monkey wrench and further taunts him Bugs by "laughing" the first seven notes of "Yankee Doodle" once aboard the aircraft. Bugs recovers and gives chase, repeatedly getting slighted by the gremlin, which includes repeated strikes with a monkey wrench and the "laughed" musical taunt. Upon chasing the gremlin inside a bomber, Bugs finds himself locked from the outside, and then the gremlin takes the plane to the air, unbeknownst to Bugs. Bugs manages to burst out of the exit door and narrowly escapes plunging to his death when he realizes the plane is airborne (realizing he has made himself a jackass as the Private Snafu theme plays). He manages to get back in, only to slide right out the other door due to strategically placed banana skins; when the gremlin opens the door again, he finds Bugs (who has aged several years through sheer terror) clinging to it with his heart beating "4F" (Army code for drastically limiting medical condition, hospitalization required, and/or ineligible to be inducted via the draft). His cat-and-mouse game with the gremlin continues, until Bugs realizes that the gremlin is flying the plane toward a pair of skyscrapers. Bugs rushes into the cockpit, takes control of the airplane, rolls it vertically, and flies through an extremely narrow slot between the towers to avoid what seemed to be an inevitable impact. The plane goes into a tailspin, its wings ripping off during its descent, with only the fuselage remaining, making Bugs both airsick and terrified. However, the plane sputters to a halt, half a short distance above the ground and hanging in mid-air, defying gravity. Both Bugs and the Gremlin then casually address the audience: the gremlin apologizes for the planes fuel depletion, while Bugs points to a wartime gas rationing sticker on the planes windshield and remarks: "Yeah. You know how it is with these A cards!"
Falling Hare
1943