Upon leaving prison, "Driver" breaks into a run until he retrieves his 1970 Chevrolet Chevelle. He drives to an office in Bakersfield, California and kills a man. Driver visits the man who gave him the car and gun and forces him to give him a list of names. Meanwhile, Driver is tracked by detective Cicero and "Cop", a detective on the verge of retirement whose life is off track due to a debilitating heroin addiction. Cicero gets a break in the case when she recognizes Driver on video. Later, a nameless hitman, "Killer", is hired to kill Driver. Killer promises his girlfriend Lily it is his last job. Driver heads to the second name on his list, an old man who films his own personal snuff films. He is in the middle of filming a sexual assault when Driver busts in the door and shoots him dead. Killer initiates a gun fight in the hallway, but Driver escapes. This affects Killer philosophically, who proposes to his girlfriend and takes the case personally. Cop and Detective are investigating Drivers past and discover he was double crossed. Cicero remembers Driver from a video of his half-brother Garys death, filmed by the videographer. On tape, an unidentified man shoots Driver in the head, but he narrowly survives, needing a metal plate in his skull. Driver visits his old girlfriends house. She knows he is killing the people in the video and, after revealing she aborted their unborn child and has begun a new life, she tells him she hopes he succeeds. At a strip club in Nevada, Driver stabs a bouncer who killed his half-brother, Gary. Soon, both Cop and Killer get word that the man survived the stabbing and is in the hospital. Knowing Driver will go back to finish him off, they converge there. Driver enters the hospital and kills the man when he is in surgery. Cop attempts to bring down Driver but is unsuccessful; however, Driver spares his life after seeing his badge. While driving away from the hospital, Driver encounters Killer. After a high-speed chase on the freeway, Killer shoots Driver in the neck after Driver shoots out his tires. The penultimate name is Drivers father. Driver believes his father arranged to have him and his half-brother Gary killed after they refused to share the money they stole in a bank job. Driver is the result of his mothers affair, which Drivers father never forgave. Driver finds out his father died years before, and his mother stitches the gunshot wound on his neck before he leaves. The last man is a traveling evangelist, and after his service is over and everyone has left, Driver confronts him. The evangelist knows why he is there and tells him that he has turned his life around, begging for forgiveness. Driver spares him, only to be confronted by Killer. Detective Cicero learns the true identity of the man who shot Driver. She hurries to the church; Cop is already on the scene. Killer tells Driver to pick up his gun so they can have a test of skill. Driver declines, saying he has no fight with him. Killer explains he wanted to be better since he could not walk when he was a child. Cop walks in and shoots Driver in the head, revealing it was he who shot Driver in the video. He gives Killer the money for the job, a single dollar, but Killer declines. Killer departs, telling Cop never to contact him again. Cop calls his girlfriend, telling her they will be okay because he closed the case and how he has been reading up on women. Cops wife Marina was Garys girlfriend and an informant for Cop. She told him about the bank job, and Cop put together the crew to take out Gary and Driver. Suddenly, he is shot by Driver, who survived the shot due to his metal plate. Detective Cicero arrives on the scene after Driver has already left, and she covers up Cops involvement. Driver scatters his brothers ashes in the sea and drives off into the sunset; simultaneously, the Evangelist begins a sermon on forgiveness.
Faster (2010 film)
2010