A bird strike on one of its two engines shortly after takeoff downs a Consolidated Airlines passenger jet. Soon after shutdown of the damaged engine, the fire alarm for the remaining engine sounds, and pilot Jack Savage (Rod Taylor) shuts down the second engine, successfully belly landing and coasting along what was thought to be an open stretch of beach. The plane, however, crashes into a pier, killing all 53 passengers aboard and all but one of the crew. Savage is initially suspected of drinking and causing the crash that leaves flight attendant Martha Webster (Susanne Pleshette) the sole survivor of the flight. Early in the investigation, it is found that Savage was seen in a bar as little as an hour before the flight. The captains wartime buddy, airline executive Sam C. McBane (Glenn Ford), is convinced of his friends innocence and doggedly investigates. Flashbacks deal with both Jacks past and Sam meeting him, plus others they used to know, as well as Savages ex-wife and current girlfriend Sally Fraser (Nancy Kwan). Sally introduces the idea of fate to McBane, who rejects it. During the investigation, it is revealed that the pier structure had been scheduled for demolition but the project had been delayed a few days; had the pier been dismantled on time the plane would have made a successful belly-landing. Through flashbacks, it is learned that Savage had accompanied another war buddy to the bar and had not been drinking himself. During a press conference, McBane struggles with the concept of fate and coincidence as the possible cause of the tragedy. Meanwhile, Webster, upon interview in the hospital, insists that she witnessed both engine fault warnings and alarm bells, not just the one from the bird strike. Eventually, a test flight is organized as part of the investigation. Piloted by McBane, its purpose is to exactly recreate in every detail the flight of the ill-fated airliner. Every detail is replicated in sequence. McBane tries to convince Webster to board the test flight, as she is the only remaining eyewitness to the cockpit procedures. She struggles through her post-traumatic reaction and boards the flight at the last moment. After take-off, Webster performs all of her normal duties and brings McBane coffee, just as she done for the original flight crew. He sets the cup on a center console just as Savage had. McBane then shuts down an engine, simulating the bird strike. He orders the craft to not be immediately trimmed, as it was not during the original event. A short time later an emergency arises: The second engine warning light and alarm indicates there is a serious engine fire in the remaining good engine, exactly as Webster had reported. McBane powers up the first engine once more and flies under full power, ignoring the fire warnings on both engines. The plane returns safely to the airfield. McBane is disheartened that he was not able to solve the mystery of the identical second engine failure, when he notices the pilots coffee cup on the console had spilled during the turbulence of the first engine shut-down. He opens the consoles access panel and finds that coffee had seeped through the seams, shorting out the wiring of the warning system. In reality both the original and test flights still had a fully functioning second engine that could have prevented the crash. Savage is therefore exonerated of pilot error by the chain of coincidences that caused the ensuing accident.
Fate Is the Hunter (film)
1964