The film begins five years after the events of the first one, with George Banks telling the audience he is ready for the empty nest hell shortly receive with all of his children grown up. Shortly thereafter, Annie tells the family that shes pregnant, and George begins to mildly panic, insisting he is too young to be a grandfather. He has his assistant make a list of people who are younger than him, dyes his hair brown, and decides he and Nina should sell the home their children have grown up in if one more thing goes wrong with it. Termites strike the house two weeks later. George puts the house on the market without telling Nina, and sells it to the Habibs. At dinner, after a discussion on whether the babys last name will be hyphenated or not, George reveals the house has been sold. Nina is livid, as she and George have to be out in 10 days and have no place to go. On moving day George and Annie play a game of basketball one last time (what they always did for father and daughter bonding since Annie was a small child). Having no place to go, the Banks stay at the MacKenzies (Annies husband Bryans parents) mansion. The MacKenzies are on vacation in Hawaii, so the Banks have to deal with their vicious Dobermans, much to Georges chagrin (still obviously paranoid from a previous mishap with them). After a late night between George and Nina, she begins experiencing symptoms that bring up the concern of menopause. After visiting the doctor the following day, they are given the opposite news: Nina is pregnant, too. Not long after, they have a chance meeting with Franck, Annies wedding planner, who is elated at both Banks women expecting. George switches gears; now believing he is too old to be a father again. His feelings come to a head when he and Nina go to Annie and Brians house to announce their news. Nina brings his insensitivity to light and tells him not to come home. As an apology, George reluctantly hires Franck and his assistant Howard to do the baby shower. As they are driving home, Nina and George have differing perspectives on the prospect of becoming new parents again. Both express how strange it will be, but begin to welcome the change. One day when George is out, he notices that the street to their old house is blocked off and sees a demolition crew with a wrecking ball at the house and learns that Mr. Habib plans to demolish it. An upset George runs in and tries to stop them, as the wrecking ball is about to slam into the house. He pleads with Mr. Habib not to tear down the house since he is going to be a father again, as there is great sentimental value to it. He realizes that if hes going to have another child, he wants to raise him/her in the house his family grew up in. When George offers to buy the house back, Habib agrees on the condition that George pay him $100,000 up front. Although reluctant to pay that money, he gives in when Mr Habib is about to send in the wrecking ball. The Banks then move back into their house, right as Bryan is called away to an emergency meeting in Japan. Meanwhile, Nina and Annie are moving along in their simultaneous pregnancies and need around the clock care from George. Matty takes over when his father George is away at work. Franck turns simple redecoration of Nina and Georges new babys nursery into a full-scale renovation/addition, which he affectionately calls, the babys suite. Eventually, all the stress and nights of sleep deprivation around Nina and Annies constant care, and a few times where Annie thought she was going into labor, wear George out. When the babys suite is revealed, Franck offers George some sleeping pills from his native country called Vatsnik  after George tells him that he has not been getting enough sleep. George unknowingly takes too high of a dosage and suddenly passes out during dinner. The family becomes worried, which is only increased when Annie finally goes into labor. Franck takes over the role of driving the family to the hospital with a barely coherent George in tow. After being mistaken for a patient in need of a prostate exam, George finally regains full consciousness and goes to see Nina and Annie when Nina goes into labor. George is initially cynical about Dr. Eisenberg, a young female obstetrician, who fills in because the intended physician had to tend to his child who had fractured her arm during camp in Maine. Despite wanting his grandchild to be delivered by the same doctor who delivered his children, George comes to terms with the arrangement. Bryan soon returns to be with Annie, who gives birth to a baby boy, while Nina gives birth to a baby girl, named George and Megan respectively. George finishes telling the story about Nina and Annies pregnancy. Bryan and Annie then move to Boston, since Annie took a job there. The film concludes with George standing on the road in front of his house, admiring it with the baby by his side. As he completes the story, he beings walking up the driveway, telling the new baby about all the basketball tricks George will teach her.
Father of the Bride Part II
1995