Kyle (Wilson) and Peter Reynolds (Helms) are fraternal twin brothers who were raised by their mother, Helen (Close), after thinking their father died before they were born. Kyle is dating his pregnant girlfriend, Kaylani, and has been financially successful after receiving royalties for his picture on hot sauce labels. Peter is a divorced proctologist with a teenage son who resents him. Shortly after his mothers wedding, Peter recognizes an actor on Law and Order: SVU as his father from his photo, and confronts his mother at her wedding. Helen explained that she had been promiscuous at the time of her childrens conception, and did not want their father to help raise them. As they press the issue, Helen reveals that their father is Terry Bradshaw. The brothers fly down to Florida to meet Bradshaw, who they encounter at a signing event. Bradshaw is excited to have them as sons, and welcomes them in to his home. As Bradshaw recounts stories with his friend and former teammate, Rod Hamilton (Rhames), Kyle and Peter realize that Bradshaw had been traveling in Australia at the time of their conception, and thus couldnt be their father. The brothers are directed to find Roland Hunt (Simmons), a New York investor who dated Helen after Bradshaw. As they travel north, Kyle finds that his royalties deal with the hot sauce company is ending, and he will be unable to support his growing family. Upon arriving at what they assumed was his office, the brothers find a boarded-up house. Hunt, thinking they are robbers, confronts them at gunpoint until they reveal they were looking for him because he dated their mother. He invites them inside, but expresses his dissatisfaction at having children. As the brothers prepare to depart, they offer to help their father in his job, which he claims is a repossession man. As Hunt breaks into a Ferrari, it becomes clear that he is a criminal thief. As the brothers argue with the owners of the Ferrari, Hunt attempts to escape, only to feel remorse for abandoning his sons. The brothers steal the Ferrari and end up hitting Hunt, who was returning to find them. At the hospital, the brothers find that they are incompatible to give Hunt blood, indicating that he cannot be their father. Hunt realizes that he was in prison at the time of their conception, but directs them to find another of Helens ex-boyfriends named Sparkly P. Unable to find Sparky P, the brothers prepare to return home. Along the way, they pick up a hitch hiker (Williams), who provides advice as they travel north. After accidentally parking on railroad tracks, Peter and the hitch hiker narrowly escape getting hit by a train, while Kyle is stuck in the car and presumably killed. Initially devastated, Peter is surprised to see Kyle walk away from the car, only to be punched by Kyle for abandoning him. As they are being treated, the police officers recognize the name Sparkly P as Patrick OCallaghan, a former police officer. As the brothers travel north, they stop at a hotel, where Peter meets and seduces Sarah (Aselton). The next morning, the brothers arrive at Patrick OCallaghans house to find a party occurring, only to quickly find out that it is his wake. Patricks daughter is invited to speak, and Peter realizes that it is Sarah, his presumed half-sister. Disgusted, Peter makes a scene as he runs out of the wake, but is told by Patricks twin brother, Kevin, that Patrick could not be his father, as he had been celibate while dating Helen. Kevin directs them to contact Dr. Walter Tinkler (Walken), who is a family friend and veterinarian from their home town. Kyle and Peter return home to confront Dr. Tinkler. Helen arrives to explain that Tinkler is not their father, as she is not their biological mother. Helen explains that she had been working at a shelter when a woman came in and gave birth to twins. The mother died during childbirth, and Helen chose to adopt Kyle and Peter instead of having them become foster children. The brothers are happy to have learned their history, and reconcile their differences. A year later, Kyle, Peter, and Helen are on vacation in Maui. Peter is now dating Sarah, and his son respects him. Kyle and Kaylani had twin daughters. The brothers have gone into business together and created an app that provides advice from the universe, spoken by the hitch hiker.
Father Figures
2017