As the DiNapoli siblings -- Antoinette (Bancroft), Dominic (DeLuise), and Frank Jr. (Carey) - are growing up, whenever young Dom was unhappy, the one thing his mother did to comfort him and make him feel cared for was to feed him something delicious. One example was Doms mom giving her older son a cannolo after the boy got urinated on by his baby brother as the babys diaper is being changed. Because of this, Dom grew up with a love of food, a trait shared by his equally obese cousin, Salvatore (Sal). When Sal suddenly dies at age 39, the family grieves. This prompts Antoinette to urge Dom to visit a diet doctor to avoid his cousins unhealthy eating habits and not drive himself into an early grave as well. Dom agrees to do so once he recognizes signs that obesity is ruining his health. Dom is deeply disheartened when given his new diet plan, seeing the long list of delectable foods and dishes that he enjoys very much but now must avoid. When the diet fails, Doms eating habits drive his sister crazy, so she enrolls him in the "Chubby Checkers" support group. Meanwhile, Dom meets Lydia (Azzara), who owns the neighborhood antiques shop, and finds they have a lot in common. But being self-conscious about his weight, he fears rejection, and cant bring himself to ask her out. Now further depressed, Dom seeks comfort from his Chubby Checkers -- Sonny and Oscar (Richard Karron and Paul Zegler) -- who turn out to be no help at all, as their reminiscing about favorite desserts and delicacies drives them to having a pig-out party in the kitchen. Dom then has Frankie padlock the fridge and larder. This, too, ends in failure as Dom, crazed by cravings for his favorite decadent delights (even having dreamed of marzipan candy), demands the keys from his brother, even threatening him with violence at one point, of which he is extremely ashamed afterward. To help their brother, Antoinette and Frankie bring together Dom and Lydia. While dating, Dom doesnt realize that he has been eating less and less, and is shocked to discover at how loosely his clothes fit in a matter of weeks. Dom decides to propose to his lovely new sweetheart. When he drops by Lydias apartment, she is gone. It worries him so much, he ends up eating all of the Chinese takeout food he was supposed to pick up for a family party. After a fit of self-loathing, Dom realizes that he must love himself the way he is, and that his siblings need to accept him for who he is. Dom then receives a phone call from Lydia, who is at a hospital in Boston visiting her younger brother, who accidentally chopped off a finger. Dom flies in and when the two take a walk through the hospital, watching the newborn babies in the nursery, Dom whispers his marriage proposal into Lydias ear, and she accepts. The film ends with a photo montage of now-married Dom and Lydia, then their babies — with each photo showing Lydia holding a new baby, while the previous child grows up. Doms obesity persists through the years, apparently exacting no toll upon the familys happiness, until the final image reveals him surrounded by Lydia and their many children...and remarkably thinner.
Fatso (1980 film)
1980