16-year-old Nicole Walker (Reese Witherspoon) lives in the suburbs of Seattle with her overbearing father Steven (William Petersen), his new wife Laura (Amy Brenneman), and Toby (Christopher Gray), Lauras son from her first marriage. At a bar with her best friend Margo (Alyssa Milano), Nicole meets David McCall (Mark Wahlberg), and is instantly swept off her feet by his good looks and sweet, charming nature. The two begin a relationship. When Steven meets David, he mistrusts him immediately. Although David is nice to Nicole, he keeps her out past curfew and soon shows an aggressive nature when he assaults her friend Gary (Todd Caldecott). He shoves Nicole to the ground when she tries to stop him, giving her a black eye. Nicole breaks up with David but, ultimately, she changes her mind and the two continue their relationship. They eventually sleep together while Steven and Laura are away on a business trip. Still suspicious, Steven checks into Davids background and learns that David has had a severely troubled life in foster care. Steven confronts David on a street corner and demands he leaves Nicole alone. David spins the encounter against Steven; he makes it look like Steven punched him, which gains Nicoles sympathy. One evening, Nicole is invited by David to a party at his friend Logans (Tracy Fraim) house. She declines at first but then has a fight with her father and drives to Logans alone. Through a window, she witnesses Margo smoking crack and having sex with David. Nicole leaves without being seen. The next day at school, David finds himself being pushed away by Nicole for his disloyalty. Nicole also ends her friendship with Margo, although Margo insists that David raped her while she was high. With the relationship over, David becomes obsessed with Nicole, tattooing his own chest with her name. David follows Margo in his car and crashes into her; he chokes her and threatens he will hurt her more if she doesnt fix things for him. David then sees Nicole hugging Gary outside school and, as Gary walks home alone, David follows and kills him. Nicole goes with Laura and Toby to the mall, where David corners her in the womens restroom, claiming they have something special and demanding her to be his forever. At the same time, Steven finds his Mustang vandalized by David who has left a note reading "Now Ive popped both your cherries!". Furious, Steven breaks into the house David shares with Logan and finds an obscene shrine he has built for Nicole. He also finds a vandalized bracelet (it read "Daddys Girl" but has been changed to "Davids Girl"), a pair of Nicoles panties, a defaced family photo (Stevens head has been replaced with Davids). Steven trashes the house in anger. Later, David returns home and promptly realizes Steven has been there. He decides to break into the Walker residence with the help of his four equally violent housemates: Logan, Hacker (Gary Riley), Knobby (Jed Rees) and Terry (Jason Kristofer). A distraught Margo is already at Nicoles house, where she informs the Walkers that Gary has been found dead. Upon arriving at the house, David and his gang behead Kaiser, the family dog. David tries to enter using the code to the main door that Nicole once told him, but Steven and Laura barricade everyone inside, while Nicole, Margo and Toby hide upstairs. Laura injures Hacker with a drill who is then taken to hospital by Knobby. Using a flashlight, Nicole sends an SOS to Larry, the Walkers private security guard, who arrives to confront the situation, but he is shot dead by Terry. David, Logan and Terry eventually force their way in and take Steven hostage, using Larrys handcuffs to shackle up him and Laura. When Logan forces himself onto Nicole, Margo intervenes but is knocked unconscious. Toby escapes through another window and gets to Lauras SUV. He uses her car phone to dial 9-1-1. Toby has to start the engine to make the phone work; Terry notices this and shoots out the windshield. It misses Toby, who then runs Terry down by reversing the SUV out of the garage. Retrieving Larrys keys, Toby sneaks inside and un-cuffs both his parents. David shoots Logan dead for trying to rape Nicole, then asks her if shes ready to leave with him, which will save her family. Steven rushes at David and the pair get into a furious brawl. David gets ready to execute Steven but Nicole prevents this by stabbing David in the back with a peace pipe (which David himself won for Nicole at a carnival on one of their dates). Both men continue to fight until Steven pushes David through her bedroom window to his death on the rocks below. Nicole and her father embrace, knowing they are safe.
Fear (1996 film)
1996