Floyd Hilstown is working in a circus as a clown with a comical lion act when he finds out hes a draft dodger. He is given a chance to enlist, instead of going to jail, but he doesnt want to leave his best friend. The friend is one Fearless Fagan, a Lion which Floyd has raised since he was four days old. The circus owner Owen Gillman suggests he buy the Lion, after which Fagan would be worked as an ordinary Lion by the circus lion tamer Emil Tacuchnitz, which doesnt sit well with Floyd. Floyd joins the army and hides Fagan somewhere on the base. All goes well until Abbey Ames, who is on the base to entertain the troops, stumbles on Floyd and Fagan playing in the woods. Frightened, she gives her word to keep Fagans presence a secret, but soon appears in the woods with Colonel Horne and troops in search of the Lion. When Fagan is found Sgt. Kellwin, Captain Daniels and Colonel Horne try to help Floyd find the Lion a home. After an exhaustive search a home is found with the Ardleys. By this time Floyd has professed his love to Abbey and she is starting to have feelings for him even though she believes him to be a bit touched. Fagan escapes his cage and creates some humorous havoc along his way back to Floyd. After he is recaptured the Army gives Floyd the choice of selling Fagan to his old circus troop or euthanasia. When Emil comes to pick up Fagan he cracks the whip and is promptly attacked. The Lion is wounded by a soldier and Floyd knows a wounded Lion will kill so he takes a pistol and knows what he must do. Once he finds the Lion he cant pull the trigger and is himself attacked but quickly calms Fagan down. Floyd wakes up in the hospital to find Sgt. Kellwin, who tells him hes to receive a medal and a ten-day pass. He also tells Floyd that Fagan is alive and Abbey has taken him to Hollywood. Floyd arrives at Abbeys home and to his horror discovers a lion skin rug. Abbey then appears and leads Floyd to the outdoor pool where they find Fagan jumping from the diving board and swimming to safety.
Fearless Fagan
1952