Freddie (Cameron Diaz) is a former stripper marrying Sam (Vincent DOnofrio) to repay a debt owed to nightclub owner Red (Delroy Lindo). When Freddie meets Jjaks (Keanu Reeves), Sams brother, they instantly fall in love. Jjaks and Freddie decide to run off together, eventually staying in a motel. After realizing that they do not have any money, Freddie and Jjaks decide to go back and steal some of Sams money. Sam catches Jjaks in the act and they have a fight. After escaping, Jjaks returns to the motel, unaware that Sam has been following him. After Jjaks passes out due to the fight, Sam ends up shooting Freddie in the stomach in Jjaks car, and tries to frame the killing on Jjaks by returning Freddies body to the motel room along with the murder weapon. The next morning, Jjaks awakens having no memory of anything that happened after his fight with Sam. Seeing Freddies body in the room along with the gun, he briefly thinks that maybe he killed Freddie. After being tipped off by Sam, the police arrive but Jjaks hastily avoids being caught. He drives Freddies body to a remote area in the woods to lay her to rest. All the while, Sam has been watching these events from afar, hoping to see his brother arrested. Sam now calls a friend, Detective Ben Costikyan (Dan Aykroyd), who promptly arrests Jjaks. The three of them, along with Bens partner Lloyd (David Alan Smith), drive to the area where supposedly Freddies body is. However upon arrival Freddie is nowhere to be found. Angered at Sam for wasting his time, Costikyan, along with Lloyd, drive off, leaving the brothers by the side of the road. Jjaks and Sam return home. They receive a phone call from the manager of the motel (Michael Rispoli), who, based on seeing Sam carrying Freddies body INTO the motel room and Jjaks carrying the body OUT OF the motel room, wants $50,000 to keep quiet. Jjaks now realizes that Sam was setting him up for Freddies murder. After another fight, they come up with a plan: Jjaks will go to the motel to talk to the manager while Sam will see Red, hoping for a loan. At this point, Red has learned that Sams been stealing money from him for the past year. Sam ends up shooting and killing Red after a brief skirmish and collects the $50,000 from a safe. Jjaks meets with the motel manager but sees Freddies necklace on the floor of the managers apartment. Confused and angry, Jjaks throws the manager outside and threatens to kill him. Suddenly out of nowhere, an alive Freddie walks towards them, calling out Jjaks name. Jjaks faints. When he revives, she shows Jjaks her bullet wound and tells him that Sams a bad shot. Also, someone picked her up from the side of the road where he had left her body. The next morning Sam calls Jjaks and tells him he got the money. However, after seeing Freddie alive from a nearby diner, he confronts Jjaks and Freddie in the managers apartment. Sam ends up getting shot when Jjaks and Freddie try to defend themselves. Costikyan enters the hotel room and suffocates Sam by holding his hand against his mouth. It turns out that Freddie had called Costikyan after being rescued and used him to help her get the $50,000. A betrayed and wounded Jjaks is left helpless. Some time later, Costikyan is arrested in his underwear inside a hotel. Freddie had tipped off the cops and left with the money. Jjaks and Freddie have since had a falling out, however Jjaks remembers Freddies dream: that she wants to live in Las Vegas and be a dancer. He hitchhikes there and finds her living her dream. When he finds her she says, with a smile: "what took you f***ing so long?" They embrace each other.
Feeling Minnesota
1996