Dawn Davenport, a regular troublemaker at her all-girls school, receives a failing Geography grade and a sentence of writing lines for fighting, lying, cheating, and eating in class. Dawn runs away from home in a rage after her parents didnt get her the "cha-cha heels" she wanted for Christmas. She hitches a ride with Earl, and they have sex on a discarded mattress at the town dump. Dawn falls pregnant but Earl refuses to support her and she gives birth to Taffy alone. Dawn works various jobs, including waiting tables and stripping at a local club, to support herself and Taffy, whom she tortures and beats mercilessly throughout her childhood. Dawn continues to act as a thief and a fence in league with school friends Chicklet and Concetta. To raise her spirits, Dawn begins frequenting the Lipstick Beauty Salon to have her hair done by Gator Nelson, who is also her neighbor. The Lipstick Beauty Salon is an exclusive salon run by high-fashion freaks Donna and Donald Dasher who believe that "crime and beauty are the same". Dawn marries Gator, whose aunt Ida (Edith Massey) badly wishes that her nephew was gay (Gator is generally tolerant of homosexuality but adamantly straight) and Ida therefore loathes Dawn. When the marriage fails, Dawn has Gator fired and the Dashers enlist Dawn to model in their photographic exploration of "crime and beauty". Gator decides to move to Detroit to work in the auto industry. Ida blames Dawn and exacts revenge by throwing acid in Dawns face. The thrilled Dashers continue to court the scarred Dawn, discouraging her to have corrective cosmetic surgery, and continue to use her as a grotesquely made-up model. The Dashers kidnap Ida (imprisoning her in a large birdcage), encourage Dawn to chop off Idas hand, and get her hooked on the drug Liquid Eyeliner. Taffy is distraught over these events and finally convinces Dawn to reveal the identity of Taffys father. Taffy finds her father living in a dilapidated house and drinking excessively. She stabs him to death with a butcher knife after he tries to sexually assault her. Taffy returns home and announces she is joining the Hare Krishna movement. Dawn warns her she will kill her if she does. Dawn, now with grotesque hair, make-up, and outfits provided by the Dashers, creates a nightclub act. Having fatally strangled Taffy backstage, Dawn pulls out a gun onstage during her act and begins firing into the crowd. Police allow the Dashers to leave after Donald and Donna claim they are upright citizens caught in a bloody rampage. Dawn flees into a forest, but is soon arrested by the police and put on trial for murder. Ida, who was previously freed by Taffy before she was killed, testifies against Dawn, while the Dashers lie about the whole situation. Although Dawn pleads not guilty by reason of insanity, the judge sentences Dawn to death via electric chair. Before Dawn is killed, she makes out with a female prisoner. As the priest says a prayer and Dawn is strapped to the electric chair, she breaks the fourth wall, thanking the audience before being electrocuted.
Female Trouble
1974