In Spain, a ranch owned by Moreno (Raúl Esparza) that trains bulls for bullfighting called Casa del Toro harbours a bull calf named Ferdinand (Colin H. Murphy). He is ridiculed by his fellow calves Bones (Nile Diaz), Guapo (Jet Jurgensmeyer), and Valiente (Jack Gore) for being non-confrontational and his tendency to smell and protect flowers. A saddened Ferdinand runs away from Casa del Toro after his father Raf (Jeremy Sisto) fails to return from a bullfight he was picked for and a flower he was fond of was smashed by Valiente after his own father was defeated by Raf. He eventually winds up at a florists farm, and is adopted by the owner Juan (Juanes), his dog Paco (Jerrod Carmichael), and his daughter Nina (Julia Saldanha) with whom he shares a bond. When Ferdinand (John Cena) eventually grows up into an enormous bull, he still retains his non-violent, flower-loving nature. Due to his size, he is left behind when Juan, Nina (Lily Day), and Paco go to Ronda for an annual flower festival. Ferdinand decides to go anyway, resulting in him getting stung by a bee and unintentionally wreaking havoc around town and is taken away back to Casa del Toro, much to his and Nina’s sadness. Once back there, he finds that Bones (Anthony Anderson), Guapo (Peyton Manning), and Valiente (Bobby Cannavale) have also grown up and have been joined by a Scottish bull named Angus (David Tennant) and a silent but intimidating bull named Maquina (Tim Nordquist). Ferdinand is still disrespected by the bulls, but manages to befriend a crazy goat named Lupe (Kate McKinnon) who wants to be his coach in bullfighting despite his lack of interest and three hedgehogs named Una (Gina Rodriguez), Dos (Daveed Diggs), and Cuatro (Gabriel Iglesias) who frequently invade Casa del Toro to steal food. They used to have another brother named Tres, but they claimed him to be dead. One day, a legendary but egotistical bullfighter named El Primero (Miguel Ángel Silvestre) arrives at Casa del Toro to choose the biggest, strongest, and most aggressive bull to fight with before he retires. When the bulls fail to impress him on the first try, Guapo is suddenly taken to a nearby slaughterhouse (The Chop House by the bulls) and the other bulls tell Ferdinand that it will eventually be their fate if they are not chosen for a bullfight. Although Ferdinand manages to earn the respect of the other bulls, except Valiente, after a dance-off with three German horses (Sally Phillips, Flula Borg and Boris Kodjoe), they still hold on to the belief that fighting is the only way for them to live. Ferdinand manages to convince Lupe to come back with him to Ninas farm and the hedgehogs help them escape, but when Ferdinand is close to freedom, he sees his dads picture on a wall with his horns mounted, along with dozens of other horns, making him realize that every bull who is chosen to fight, will be slain by the matador. Ferdinand tells the other bulls about how they will all eventually be killed even if theyre chosen to fight, but Valiente is the only one unconvinced and charges Ferdinand outside where Ferdinand inadvertently beats him in a fight and knocks off his right horn, much to the animals shock. Primero witnesses the scuffle, and chooses Ferdinand to fight after seeing him defeat Valiente. When Valiente is taken to the slaughterhouse, Ferdinand rallies up the remaining bulls to escape but first goes to the slaughterhouse to break out Valiente. He at first refuses as he believes that the slaughterhouse is his fate now, but they discover that Guapo is still alive, and Ferdinand questions Valientes courage after Valiente refuses to help him rescue Guapo. When Ferdinand tries to save Guapo, he accidentally activates a series of deadly contraptions, but with the help of a now-friendlier Valiente, they escape the slaughterhouse and the bulls, Lupe, the hedgehogs and a red bunny rabbit steal the training areas company truck to escape, resulting in Moreno and his employees giving chase to them after Primero threatens to fight Moreno in the ring. The animals try desperately to lose the humans and wind up at Atocha train station in Madrid that Ferdinand sees as his ticket back to Nina. When the bulls push a small railroad cart to catch the train back to Ninas home, Ferdinand sacrifices himself so the other bulls can escape (except for Lupe, who stays behind in shock after Ferdinands act) and is captured by Moreno and his employees. When news of Ferdinands upcoming fight with El Primero makes its way to Ninas home, she and Juan set out to Madrid to find and rescue Ferdinand. At Las Ventas bullfight arena, Lupe tries to urge Ferdinand that he must fight in order to survive, but Ferdinand is silently unsure. When Ferdinand is released into the bullfight ring, he refuses to fight at first but is urged into fighting by El Primero. While being forced to run into Primero’s cape, Ferdinand is able to grab the cape from Primero with his horn and is temporarily blinded by it. Primero attempts to grab his cape back from Ferdinand, but is accidentally tossed out of the ring by Ferdinand. Primero re-enters the ring angrily tries to attack Ferdinand using banderillas and in the process, strikes Ferdinand in the shoulder, who almost retaliates against him, but sees a carnation underneath his hoof and sees that hes being the fighter he was unwilling to be. Regardless, Primero removes his sword in attempts to coerce Ferdinand one last time to fight in order to finish Ferdinand. Ferdinand refuses to fight and instead sits down. As Primero approaches to finish Ferdinand, the crowd begins to cheer for Ferdinand, convincing Primero to spare him. Primero then lets Ferdinand live and leaves with dignity. Ferdinand is reunited with Nina, who embraces him and everyone throws carnations to the ring to praise the bull. The other bulls arrive, thinking they’re too late to save Ferdinand, but instead witness Ferdinand making history as the first bull to ever make it out of a bullfight alive by being himself. In the end, Ferdinand returns home with Nina, Juan, and Paco. They are joined by the other bulls, the hedgehogs, the bunny, and Lupe, who all move into the farm. The film ends with Ferdinand, his bull friends, and Lupe watching the sunset over Ronda from a field of flowers. In a brief mid-credits scene, the hedgehogs are confronted by Tres who is revealed to have been alive the whole time, which shocks the other hedgehogs and Cuatro faints in response while Una and Dos cross themselves.
Ferdinand (film)
2017