Sports writer Steve Taggart (ONeal) volunteers to do a series of articles for the Los Angeles Herald Examiner about a compulsive gambler he calls "Mr. Green"...who is, in fact, himself. Taggart becomes obsessed with gambling in Las Vegas, which lands him deeply into debt. He compounds his money and gambling problems by dealing with associated loan sharks, including the mean and dangerous L.A. bookmaker known as "The Dutchman" (Chad Everett). Taggart soon learns that a local pro football quarterback, whose team he covers, is also on the Dutchmans payroll - as a means of cutting his own gambling debts. After clearing the story with his sports editor, John Saxon, Taggart journeys to Las Vegas for a field report on his gambling series; through a casino owner he meets a sexy casino cocktail hostess named Flo (Catherine Hicks). Loving the tables, at Flos urging he gambles with Flo at roulette and wins, instead of taking her to bed. In Las Vegas Taggart also checks out assorted Las Vegas bookmakers, including Leroy. Taggart meets various Vegas gambling and business figures, including famed Las Vegas Sun publisher Hank Greenspun, for more insights into the Las Vegas gambling world. He is unaware that the Dutchmans tough guy enforcer, "Panama Hat" is closely following him until the Hat William Smith confronts him at the hotel pool as Taggart attempts to relax on a chaise lounge. Panama Hat orders Taggart to return to Los Angeles immediately, and settle up with the Dutchman, or there will be dire consequences. Taggarts risk-addiction and perennial gambling money-losses ultimately spill over into his personal life. After a day trip to Knotts Berry Farm Taggart brings his young daughter (Bridgette Andersen) to Hollywood Park; At the track pressbox, they see and chat with his colleagues, famed Los Angeles newspaper sportswriters Jim Murray and Alan Malamud. Taggart is now trying to stop gambling-but at the racetrack watching the races, he is physically assaulted by a track-goer to whom he owes money. Reporting to work the next day at the Herald Examiner, his newspaper editor (John Saxon) says he loves the "Mr. Green" series which the newspaper has been running, enough so that Saxon advances Taggart $10,000 dollars for "Mr. Green" to use as seed money for more gambling. Upon more reflection on how truly dangerous gambling can be, Taggart visits Gamblers Anonymous in order to end his gambling compulsion. Taggart still returns to Las Vegas, where he becomes increasingly acquainted with Las Vegas high-roller Charley Peru (Giancarlo Giannini),in hopes of making a large score and breaking even. He also hopes of Peru helping him get the Dutchmans head thug, Panama Hat (William Smith), off Taggarts back. Finally Taggart decides to stop gambling "forever" Returning to Los Angeles, to celebrate "kicking" his gambling habit, Taggart places a few dollars into a slot machine at the Las Vegas Airport, where he magically scores a huge jackpot. Taggart immediately gets an attorney to hold the huge score in trust fund for his daughter. When he asks the attorney to reassure him "even I cannot touch the money?", his attorney replies, "especially not you."
Fever Pitch (1985 film)
1985