Following a grueling day of work, firefighter Jeremy Thomas Coleman and his co-workers contemplate ending the day with a case of 35-year-old Scotch. When Jeremy enters a convenience store to buy snacks, he witnesses the clerk and his son being brutally murdered at the hands of Hagan, an Aryan Brotherhood crime boss. After Jeremy narrowly escapes with his life, police detective Mike Cella, whose old partner was murdered by Hagan while they pursued him in a different case, sees an opportunity to bring justice. Hagan is arrested and Jeremy identifies him in a line up; however, Hagan demonstrates that he knows full well that Jeremy is behind the two-way mirror by reciting Jeremys full name, address and social security number. Prior to the trial, Jeremy is forced to change his last name to Douglas and surrender his entire career as he is placed into the witness protection program. Although Jeremy finds it difficult to cope with the loss of his career, he finds consolation in his budding romance with Talia Durham, a Deputy United States Marshal assigned to his case. Later, Hagans attorney arranges for him to be released from prison in the weeks leading up to the trial. As a result, Jeremy and Talia find their lives in jeopardy. Talia is wounded by one of Hagans hit men, and Hagan calls Jeremy, threatening to kill everyone he loves whether he testifies or not. Jeremy vows to kill Hagan first and abandons the witness protection program. Jeremy travels home to Long Beach, California, where he seeks out an Eastside Crips leader to exact revenge. The Crips decline to help but give him a gun. Jeremy stakes out one of Hagans hiding places and kills three of his men while in pursuit of Hagan. However, he leaves behind his fingerprints which can not be traced back to him due to his WITSEC status. The evidence, though, leads detective Cella to believe Jeremy is behind the killings. Jeremy grows bolder in his actions, torturing one of Hagans men and confronting Hagans attorney to find out where Hagan will be. Hagans attorney, who only works for Hagan out of fear, gives Jeremy the location of an abandoned building Hagan will be at that night. Talia arrives at Long Beach and tries to convince Jeremy to abandon his plan. Jeremy locks Talia in the bathroom and gets away, but Hagans hit man arrives soon after and kidnaps Talia. That night, Jeremy, using his firefighting knowledge, sets ablaze the building where Hagan and his men are meeting. When Jeremy realizes Talia is also in the building, he puts on his firemans suit and enters the building to rescue her. Talia manages to break free of her bonds and kills Hagans hitman as he attempts to flee the blaze. Jeremy runs into Hagan inside the burning building and, after a struggle, Talia kills Hagan. Jeremy leaves the building with Talia. In the aftermath, detective Cella, while conversing with the DA, states that no evidence was left behind at the burnt building to charge anyone with the deaths of Hagan and his men. Cella is seen putting away a photo of him and his old partner.
Fire with Fire (2012 film)
2012