Seven years after his discharge, Vietnam War veteran John Rambo travels by foot to visit one of his old comrades, but learns upon his arrival that his friend had died from cancer due to Agent Orange exposure during the war. Rambo continues to travel, wandering into the small town of Hope, Washington. He is intercepted by the towns Sheriff, Will Teasle, who considers him an unwanted nuisance. When Rambo asks for directions to a diner, Teasle drives him out of town, and tells him not to return. Rambo returns to town, and Teasle arrests him on charges of vagrancy, resisting arrest, and possessing a concealed knife. Led by chief deputy Art Galt, Teasles officers abuse Rambo, triggering flashbacks of the torture he endured as a POW in Vietnam. When they try to dry-shave him with a straight razor, Rambo overwhelms the police, fights his way outside, and flees into the woods. Teasle organizes a search party with automatic weapons, dogs, and a helicopter to recapture him. During the search, it is revealed that Rambo is a former Green Beret who received the Medal of Honor for his service. Galt spots Rambo and resorts to lethal force in defiance of orders, attempting to shoot Rambo from the helicopter. Trapped on a high cliff over a creek, Rambo leaps into a tree to break his fall, injuring himself in the process. Galt leans out of the helicopter, trying to shoot Rambo, who is hiding behind a tree. Rambo throws a rock, which fractures the helicopters windshield; the pilots sudden reaction causes Galt to lose his balance and fall out of the helicopter to his death. Rambo tries to persuade Teasle and his men that it was an accident, and that he wants no more trouble, but the police open fire and pursue him into a wooded area. Rambo disables the deputies non-lethally one by one using his combat skills, until only Teasle is left. Holding a knife to his throat, Rambo threatens to fight back much harder if Teasle doesnt let go, giving him a war that he wont believe. Teasle chooses to press the issue, and the state police and national guard are called in to assist in the manhunt. At the same time, Rambos mentor and former commanding officer, Colonel Sam Trautman arrives. Warning of his former soldiers abilities, Trautman advises that Rambo be given a gap to slip through so he can be recaptured more safely later. Confident that Rambo is hopelessly outnumbered, Teasle refuses. A National Guard detachment corners Rambo at the entrance of an abandoned mine; against orders, they use an M72 LAW rocket, collapsing the entrance and seemingly killing Rambo. He survives, finds an alternate way out of the mine, and hijacks a supply truck, which he uses to return to town. From the truck, he takes an M60 machine gun and ammunition. To distract his pursuers, he blows up a gas station, shoots out most of the towns power, and destroys a gun store near the police station. Teasle has positioned himself on the roof of his station to search for Rambo, and Rambo spots him there during the confusion. The two engage in a brief gunfight, which ends with Teasle being shot and falling through a skylight. Rambo prepares to kill him, but Trautman arrives and warns Rambo that he will be shot if he doesnt surrender. Rambo collapses to the floor in tears where he talks about the things that happened to him in Vietnam and when he returned home. He surrenders to Trautman, and is taken into custody.
First Blood
1988