Hotshot ensign Alan Drake (Robert Taylor), fresh from the flying academy at Pensacola, Florida, wants to be accepted by the pilots of an elite squadron, nicknamed the "Hellcats", to which he has been posted in San Diego. He gets off to a bad start, making a nearly disastrous landing attempt in heavy fog against orders, then disqualifying the squadron during a competitive shooting exercise by colliding with the target drogue when shooting at it. He also asks out Lorna (Ruth Hussey), a woman he has met, not knowing that she is married to the squadron commander Billy Gary (Walter Pidgeon). But he is earnest and contrite, and both his flying and his social errors are readily forgiven. Although initially reluctant to accept a recent trainee (they nickname him "Pensacola"), soon enough his fellow pilots do. He mixes with them at the Garys large house, which the sociable couple have opened as an unofficial officers club. Drake also proves himself when he helps Lieutenant Jerry Banning (Shepperd Strudwick) solve a problem in a blind-landing apparatus he is developing. Just after Commander Gary is sent out of town on assignment, Banning decides the apparatus is ready to test in fog—but it fails and he is killed. Working with Bannings assistant, Drake soon identifies the problem, but no further testing is allowed. Banning had been a friend of Lorna Garys since childhood, and is not her first friend to die. She sinks into a deep depression, made worse because she knows her husband will expect her to hide her feelings, deal with the facts, and carry on. Drake is finally able to reach her and convinces her to keep her mind occupied with activities. She goes out with him for walks, drives, tennis; he amuses her with jokes. At a restaurant she reaches for his hand and realizes she is falling for him. She quickly breaks away and says she cannot see him any more. As soon as her husband returns, she tells him she needs to leave him for a while. She explains that she cannot again hide her feelings and carry on after a tragedy, as he expects; but he just says she should have said so before. Not mentioning Drake, she also says that she has changed. He tells her to leave if she must, but he still loves her and hopes she will come back to him because she loves him. Because Drake and Lorna were seen together, some of the squadron believe he must have seduced her. Out of respect for her privacy, Drake gives no explanation but merely files a resignation letter, which Commander Gary reluctantly puts through channels. While waiting for a response, they participate in an emergency search and rescue, during which Garys engine fails and he is badly injured in a crash-landing. Drake acts against orders to rescue him, but San Diego is under a heavy fog. Fortunately Bannings equipment is still on Drakes plane, and he is able to use it to land safely. In response to a telegram, Lorna Gary returns to San Diego and visits her husband in the hospital; their marriage is saved. She explains what happened between her and Drake; his reputation is saved. And Drakes resignation is refused because he is too junior to leave the Navy; his career with the squadron is saved. All is well.
Flight Command
1940