During the Korean War, United States Air Force (USAF) nurse Lt. Polly Davis (Joan Leslie) flies to Japan for her first assignment with the Medical Air Evacuation Unit. Hoping to be near her fiancé, helicopter pilot Capt. Mike Barnes (Arthur Franz), she meets her roommates, Lt. Ann Phillips (Jeff Donnell) and Lt. Kit Ramsa (Kristine Miller) at the nurses quarters in Tachikawa, but has not seen Mike. The other nurses tell Polly that "flight nurses never get their men." Chief nurse Capt. Martha Ackerman (Maria Palmer), sends them on their various assignments. Polly is taken to a C-47 transport aircraft to meet medical technician, Sgt. Frank Swan (James Holden), and the pilots, Captains Bill Eaton (Forrest Tucker) and Tommy Metcalf (Dick Simmons). Her first images of war in Korea are jarring, but Polly quickly gains her composure to treat wounded men. Bill watches as Polly calmly saves a young mans life. He begins to fall in love with her. Back in Japan, Mike takes Polly on a date and talks about marriage, but he is called out on a mission. Later, Bill learns that Mikes helicopter with wounded men is overdue and attempts a rescue. During the flight, Polly learns of Mikes danger and is angry that Bill held back the information. During their missions, Bill is there to comfort Polly during bombings and saves her life when she is almost killed rescuing a wounded soldier. When the U.S. Marines and the U.S. Army land at Inchon and take Seoul, 50,000 prisoners of war are freed. In a Seoul hospital, several released American prisoners tell that a captured Korean was in charge of killing Americans. Dog tags of dead soldiers are retrieved, including Mikes. When Polly learns of this, grieving and oblivious, she is nearly killed by "Bed Check Charlie," an enemy flier who drops nightly bombs, but Bill again saves her life. Frank worries that Polly is near a breakdown and Bill talks to Ackerman, who grounds Polly. Later, after Kit reports Mike was found alive near the Chosin Reservoir but in a hospital, Ackerman sends Polly there in Bills aircraft. On the flight, a crazed soldier opens the door which hits the stabilizer, causing a crash. Polly, trying to aid an unconscious soldier, is thrown forward violently and suffers a concussion. After the crew loads the passengers into lifeboats, Bill takes Polly into the crew raft with him. As they wait for rescue, Polly is delirious but calls out for Mike. When they are rescued, Polly recuperates in the same hospital as Mike, who has been receiving regular care packages from his former hometown girl friend. When he is well enough to be shipped home, Mike again asks Polly to marry him. However, during her convalescence Polly has come to realize that she could not embrace a quiet life while she is needed in Korea, and suggests that Mike return home to his real love. Later, Polly rejoins Bill and the rescue team, ready to start a new life with him.
Flight Nurse (film)
1953