Recently widowed Berlin-based American aircraft engineer Kyle Pratt is taking her husband Davids body back to the U.S, after his untimely death. She and her six-year-old daughter, Julia, are flying aboard an Aalto Airlines Elgin 474, an aircraft Kyle helped design. When Kyle awakens from a short nap, Julia is missing. None of the passengers or crew recall seeing Julia. Flight attendant Stephanie later claims there is no record of Julia boarding and the passenger manifest registers the childs seat as unoccupied. Julias boarding pass and backpack are also missing. Kyle insists that Captain Marcus Rich conduct a thorough search of the plane. Julia is not found and Kyle becomes increasingly desperate. She unjustly accuses two Arab passengers, Obaid and Ahmed, of kidnapping Julia and plotting to hijack the plane. Captain Rich and the flight attendants, particularly Stephanie, suspect Kyle is unhinged by her husbands death and may have imagined bringing her daughter on board. Because of Kyles increasingly erratic and panicked behaviour, Captain Rich orders sky marshal Gene Carson to guard and handcuff her. Later, Captain Rich receives a wire from a Berlin hospital claiming Julia died with her father. Kyle furiously denies this and insists the search continue. A therapist, Lisa, consoles Kyle, who starts doubting her own sanity until she notices the heart Julia drew on the foggy window next to her seat. Kyle asks to use the bathroom and, once inside, climbs through a trapdoor into the planes overhead crawl space. She sabotages the aircrafts electronics, deploying the oxygen masks and cutting power to the planes lighting. During the ensuing chaos, she rides a dumbwaiter to the lower freight deck. She finds and opens Davids casket using the lock code, suspecting Julia may be trapped inside, but it only contains her husbands body. Carson finds her and escorts her back to her seat in handcuffs. He says the flight is making an emergency stopover at Goose Bay Airport in Newfoundland, Canada where she will be taken into custody. Kyle makes a final plea to Carson to search the plane upon landing. Before speaking to the captain, Carson sneaks down the freight deck and removes two explosives and a detonator concealed in Davids casket, then goes to the avionics section and plants and arms the explosives at an area where a presumably drugged Julia is sleeping. It is revealed at this point that Carson, Stephanie, and the Berlin mortuary director are part of a conspiracy to hijack the plane for a $50 million ransom and frame Kyle as the hijacker, due to her job and knowledge of the plane. The conspirators kidnapped Julia in hopes of Kyle unlocking the casket as she is the only one who knows the code. Carson lies to Captain Rich that Kyle is threatening to bomb the aircraft unless the ransom money is wired to a bank account and a G3 plane is readied upon landing. He then plans to detonate the explosives, which will kill Julia and leave Kyle dead with the detonator in hand. After landing in Newfoundland, the tarmac is surrounded by U.S. FBI agents. After the passengers disembark, Kyle apologizes to Captain Rich for disrupting the flight but is certain Julia will be found. Angered, Captain Rich demands she drop the charade, stating that the $50 million has been wired. Kyle realizes that Carson is the perpetrator and, assuming the role of the hijacker, demands Carson remain aboard and the crew leave. Carson realizes he cannot refuse without giving himself away. When the planes door closes, Kyle knocks Carson unconscious with a fire extinguisher, handcuffs him to a rail, and takes the detonator. Stephanie appears and uncuffs Carson as he regains consciousness. He fires a gun at Kyle, sending her running and locking herself into the cockpit. She fools Carson away from the cockpit by throwing a binder in the planes attic. Meanwhile, a panicked Stephanie flees the plane after a small altercation with Kyle. Kyle finds the unconscious Julia in the avionics and narrowly avoids Carson. He reveals that David was murdered by the conspirators to conceal explosives in his casket (as caskets are not required to be x-rayed) and how he abducted Julia and dumped her in the food bin before disparaging the people aboard who would never care enough to notice. Kyle, carrying Julia, escapes into the cargo hold and closes the hatch. Leaning on Davids casket with Julia in the non-combustible hold, she detonates the explosives, killing Carson. Everyone watches in shock and amazement as Kyle carries her daughter out onto the tarmac, realizing that she was telling the truth the whole time. At an airport hangar the next morning, Captain Rich apologizes to Kyle and comments on how she and Julia look alike. As a handcuffed Stephanie is led away by FBI agents, one of the escorting agents informs Kyle of the arrest of the Berlin mortuary director, asking her to identify him. She carries the still unconscious Julia through the crowd of passengers to a waiting SUV while the passengers realize the truth. As an act of respect and forgiveness, Obaid helps Kyle load her luggage. Julia awakes and sleepily asks "are we there yet" as the SUV drives away.
Flightplan
2005