Sandy Ricks (Luke Halpin) is a young boy living in the Florida Keys who rescues and befriends a dolphin injured by a harpoon. His father, fisherman Porter Ricks (Chuck Connors) disapproves, as dolphins compete for fish, which jeopardizes the family income. He is also upset that, after befriending the dolphin, Sandy neglects his chores - especially those assigned by his Dad, repairing various items damaged by a dangerous hurricane, from which Sandy and Porter escape at the beginning of the movie. After "Flipper" (as Sandy names his new friend) recovers from the wound, the dolphin puts on a show to entertain the neighborhood children. Porter, seeing Flipper as both a threat to his nets and fish and a distraction to Sandys assigned post-hurricane clean-up chores, lets the recovered Flipper swim out of the pen to the open sea, despite Sandys tearful pleadings to keep the pet he has come to love. However, later, Flipper returns to the Ricks pen, much to Sandys delight, but devours Porters entire catch of pompano, which were caught only thanks to Flipper guiding Sandy to the fish. The loss is keenly felt due to a red plague killing local fish in large numbers. Porter harshly berates Sandy for allowing Flipper to jump into the holding pen of valuable fish waiting to go to market, "Whats wrong with you boy? How old are you, 12, almost in your teens? Or are you a child who doesnt have the sense to know what his next meal depends on?" Reduced to tears, Sandy retreats to his bedroom as Porters wife Martha (Kathleen Maguire) remonstrates that "hes only a boy". Determined to make up for the loss, Sandy sets off to find more fish, and is led by Flipper to a large school of fish near a reef. Later, Sandy is rescued from a threatening shark by Flipper, and the grateful father draws closer to his son. Porter Ricks is finally convinced that Flipper did indeed help Sandy find fish and that there are enough fish for both the local residents of the area and the dolphins.
Flipper (1963 film)
1963