A vagabond family composed of Pop Kwimper (Arthur OConnell); his good-natured but unsophisticated son, Toby (Elvis Presley); and various informally "adopted" children, including their babysitter, a nineteen-year-old named Holly Jones (Anne Helm), is traveling through Florida. Pop drives onto an as-yet-unopened section of new highway. The car runs out of gas and the Kwimpers intend to wait until a government vehicle passes by to help them out. In the meantime they set up a temporary camp. After a time, the first vehicle to come by belongs to state highway commissioner H. Arthur King, who is appalled that the Kwimpers presence on the pristine highway might negatively impact its dedication ceremony that day featuring the governor of Florida. King tries to have the Kwimpers forcibly removed, but when the governor himself arrives in advance of the ceremony, Pop informs him that they are invoking the states homesteading laws and plan to live near the highway permanently. The governor applauds the Kwimpers pioneering spirit and tells the police to respect "private property." King, who considers the Kwimpers to be a huge nuisance, leaves angrily and vows to return. Holly tells Toby she is thrilled by the prospect of homesteading because shes never had a real permanent home. A chance encounter with an avid fisherman (Herbert Rudley) gives Holly an idea. With the help of a $2,000 bank loan, they build a thriving business catering to sports fishermen. Trouble soon follows. King has the Kwimpers cut off from all social assistance from their home state. Shortly thereafter Toby rejects the advances of an amorous social worker named Alisha Claypoole (Joanna Moore), an ally of King. In an act of revenge, she begins legal action to have the children taken away from Pop and make them wards of the state. Since the area is technically outside the jurisdiction of any law enforcement, two gamblers (Jack Kruschen and Simon Oakland) soon set up a raucous casino in a trailer. They attempt to buy the Kwimpers land and belongings, but Pop refuses to sell at any price. Toby becomes the new communitys sheriff and tries to quell the noise coming from the casino every night. His presence as a law-enforcement officer causes the casino patrons to flee. The gamblers attempt violent means to get their way. However, Toby naively but successfully deals with the casinos armed thugs. In the end, Tobys earthy wits and honesty win over the judge at the childrens custody hearing. The judge orders the children to be returned Pop and also praises the Kwimpers pioneer spirit in his statement to the court. The family happily returns to its new land and home. Holly also gets Toby to recognize that she is a grown woman, and it is implied they will soon marry.
Follow that Dream
1962