Foodfight! takes place in the "Marketropolis" supermarket. After closing time, the supermarket transforms into a city in which all the citizens are "Ikes", personified well-known marketing icons. In the Ikes world, heroic cereal mascot Dex Dogtective is about to propose to his girlfriend Sunshine Goodness, a raisin mascot, but she goes missing just before he is able to do so. Six months later, in the real world, a Brand X representative called "Mr. Clipboard" arrives at Marketropolis and aggressively pushes Brand Xs range of generic products. In the world of the Ikes, the arrival of Lady X, the seductive Brand X detergent Ike, causes a commotion at Dexs club, the Copabanana. Brand X products begin to replace previous products, which is mirrored in the Ikes world with the deaths of several Ikes. After Dexs friend Daredevil Dan (a chocolate squirrel) disappears, Dex begins to investigate. After rebuffing Lady Xs attempts to bring him to Brand Xs side, Dex is locked in a dryer with Dan to be melted but the two manage to escape. Dan and Dex find out that Brand X contains an addictive and toxic secret ingredient. Dex and Dan attempt to initiate a product recall with the store owners computer. A Brand X Ike cuts power just as they send the message. Dex then rallies the citizens of Marketropolis to fight the armies of Brand X in a massive food fight. The citizens win the battle through cunning use of the supermarkets electricity and lightning rods to protect their own buildings. Dex rescues Sunshine who had been held hostage in the Brand X tower and escapes with the help of Dan. Mr. Clipboard then enters the Ikes world, and it is discovered that he is a robot controlled by Lady X. Lady X reveals that she had previously been the hideous Ike of an unsuccessful brand of prunes, and had been stealing Sunshines essence to create a new brand. Dex and Sunshine defeat her, reverting her to her original form. With Brand X defeated, and a cure found that revives the killed Ikes, Dex and Sunshine finally marry.
Foodfight!
2013