Alex Whitman (Matthew Perry) is an architect from New York City who is sent to Las Vegas to supervise the construction of a nightclub that his firm has been hired to build. Alex is a strait-laced WASP-ish type who, while researching possible menus items for the new nightclub, he meets Isabel Fuentes (Salma Hayek), a free-spirited Mexican-American photographer. Alex and Isabel are overtaken by lust at first sight and end up spending the night together; however, their immediate attraction doesnt last in the cold light of day, and they dont see each other for another three months. When they do meet again, its because Isabel has some interesting news for Alex: shes pregnant with his child. Isabel decide to keep and raise the child. Knowing that becoming a single mom will disappoint her family, she asks Alex to accompany her to a relatives birthday, hoping that when her family asks about the father of her baby, she can at least say that they met him once. Alex agrees, an in spite of some cultural differences, finds himself more attracted to Isabels personality and art. Though Isabel is ready to say goodbye after the party, Alex suddenly proposes that they pursue a real relationship. He proposes and they quickly get married (with an Elvis impersonator serving as witness), but after Isabel meets Alexs mom (Jill Clayburgh) and Alex is confronted by Isabels father (Tomas Milian), both start to wonder if "doing the right thing" was just that, especially as Alex tries to balance his career in New York with Isabels desire to continue working in Nevada. Isabel has a complication with the pregnancy and tells Alex that she lost the baby. Disappointed, Alex returns to working on the nightclub while Isabel goes home to Mexico to recuperate with relatives. Upon realizing that he wants to pursue a family with Isabel more than his career, Alex travels to rural Mexico to find Isabel, where her relatives reveal that she is still very much in love with him, and still pregnant. He catches up with her on the way to a hospital, and she gives birth on the Hoover Dam. The birth of their daughter coincides with their legal divorce, but they soon remarry with both of their families present on the Grand Canyon.
Fools Rush In (1997 film)
1997