Millionaire J. Harold Manners (Harold Lloyd) finds himself in the poor part of town one day. When he accidentally sets fire to a charity pushcart dispensing free coffee and owned by do-gooder Brother Paul (Paul Weigel), he pulls out his checkbook to cover the damage. Brother Paul, who was talking to another person about his dream to build a mission, assumes he wants to pay for the mission and tells him $1000. Though he finds that a rather hefty amount for a mere pushcart, Manners pays without complaint. Once Manners reads in the newspaper that he is sponsoring a mission, he goes there to dissociate himself from it. He is aghast to find it named the J. Harold Manners Mission. When he starts to tear down the sign, he is scolded by Brother Pauls daughter, Hope (Jobyna Ralston), who does not know who he is. Far from being offended, he is smitten with her. Thus, when Brother Paul returns and invites him inside to tour the place, he readily accepts. Hope, once she learns his identity, apologizes. In order to build up attendance, Manners runs through town provoking people, and winds up with a crowd chasing him right into the mission. Some of the men are in possession of the proceeds of a jewel robbery. Before they can beat him up, however, the police arrive. The quick-witted Manners takes up a "collection"; the crooks deposit their loot in the hat he is using while the police search everybody. This act earns him the friendship of the gang. He eventually wins the girl and they decide to get married at the mission. His high-brow friends decide to kidnap him, believing they are saving him from a terrible mistake. As they drive away, one of them tells the weddings "reception committee" that Manners is not going to marry Hope. The disappointed committeemen get drunk. Then their leader decides to go to Manners club to confirm the news. They free Manners and head back to the mission. Manners has his hands full shepherding five drunks, but finally gets them all there and marries Hope.
For Heaven's Sake (1926 film)
1926