Mary Peppertree (Deanna Durbin) starts a new job as a telephone operator at the White House, where her father Timothy has been working as a guard for many years. A former Supreme Court telephone operator, Mary takes her first call from David Paxton (Don Taylor), a fishing expert who insists on speaking to the President about a political issue involving a small Pacific island. After hanging up on him twice, Mary spends the rest of her day fielding calls from various Supreme Court justices who attempt to reconcile her with her former fiancé, Phillip Manning (Jeffrey Lynn), a Justice Department attorney. Later that night, Mary meets Justice Peabody (Harry Davenport) at a restaurant to discuss her breakup with Phillip, who is also there. After resisting their efforts to reunite her with Phillip, Mary tells Phillip that she broke their engagement not because she saw him with another woman, but because she was not jealous about it. Their conversation about her hard day at the White House fending off calls from the "fish peddler" is overheard by David, who assures Mary that he will speak to the President, despite her interference. The next morning at the White House gate, David attempts to bribe Mary with flowers and candy, only to have them thrown back into his face. Later, at the switchboard, Mary receives a call from the President. When Mary hiccups into the phone, the President sends his executive secretary, Harvey Elwood (Ray Collins), to check on her condition and offers her a paper bag to breathe into. When Phillip calls expecting to drive her to Justice Peabodys party that night, she declines, not wanting to resume their relationship. Later, as she is leaving work, Mary must drive David off the White House grounds to prevent his arrest. Mary asks David to escort her to the party, offering to introduce him to the Presidents secretary in exchange for the favor. Meanwhile, the President, having overheard Mary telling Phillip that she would rather stay home than attend the party with him, sends Lt. Tom Farrington (Edmond OBrien), a naval aide at the White House, to escort Mary. At the party, they cause a stir and not a little jealousy in Phillip. After a pleasant evening of singing around the piano, Tom escorts Mary home, where she notices theyre being watched. After she kisses Tom goodnight and he leaves, she is confronted by David, whos been waiting on the porch all night. David kisses a startled Mary, who starts to hiccup again. The next day, when the President learns that Mary was upset about not keeping her date with David, he calls the fishing expert himself to express his regrets. Later over lunch, Mary tells David she will arrange a meeting for him with Phillip who can help him with his political issue. That afternoon at the Peppertree home, Tom arrives with presidential orders to take Mary to a White House movie screening. When Phillip learns that Mary is with Tom, he questions David about his relationship with Mary. The frustrated marine biologist announces he is leaving town and that everyone in Washington seems to have a "Mary Peppertree fixation." Meanwhile, Toms friend, newspaper publisher Samuel Litchfield (Frank Conroy), complains to Elwood about Toms involvement with Mary, a mere switchboard operator. When Mary and Tom arrive together at the restaurant, the owner, Gustav Heindel (Hugo Haas), tells Elwood he saw Mary kissing David. Elwood decides to handle the matter with the Navy personally. Phillip offers to put the Justice Department on the case and promises to clear up the matter in two days. That night, at Elwoods request, David takes Mary out on a date in Toms place. After kissing David, Mary breaks out in hiccups, a sign that she is in love. When Phillip and Tom show up, a jealous David leaves in anger, believing she is also seeing them. The next morning, Mary receives calls from Gustav and the Supreme Court justices congratulating her on her engagement to Phillip, and a call from the President congratulating her on her engagement to Tom! When Elwood learns that David is not technically a citizen of the United States, he has the young man arrested for illegally entering the country. Elwood soon discovers, however, that the Pacific island on which David was born and holds a deed is home to a strategic military base. If David is declared an alien, the Navy could be forced to move. Later that day, everyone arrives at Gustavs restaurant to try to resolve the issue. After meeting with the Presidents advisors, David fashions a Senate resolution for the American annexation of his island if Phillip and Tom are given appointments far from Washington, and he and Gustav are made United States citizens. The government readily agrees, and when Mary calls the President with the good news, David interrupts her conversation with a kiss, causing both of them to hiccup.
For the Love of Mary
1948