In 1936, Madariaga is an 80-year-old patriarch of a large Argentinian cattle ranch. He has two grandsons - Julio, son of the French son-in-law Marcelo, and Heinrich, son of the German Karl. Heinrich returns home from studying in Germany to reveal he has become a Nazi. Madariaga slaps Heinrich and predicts that the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (Conquest, War, Pestilence, and Death) will soon devastate the earth; he runs outside into a storm with visions of the four horsemen and then dies in Julios arms. In 1938 Julio goes to Paris with his family and befriends Marcelos anti-Nazi friend Etienne Laurier. Julio falls in love with Lauriers wife, Marguerite, and becomes her lover after war breaks out and Laurier is sent to a prisoner-of-war camp. He takes advantage of his status as a neutral to live a pleasant life with Marguerite in German-occupied Paris where his cousin Heinrich is an important official in the SS. When Marguerite becomes the object of German General von Kleigs lust, Julio defies him and incurs von Kleigs personal enmity. Julios younger sister Chi Chi becomes active in the French resistance, troubling Julio about his own lack of character. Laurier is released from prison an apparently broken man and Marguerite leaves Julio to care for him. When Julio discovers that Laurier is an important figure in the resistance, he joins it as well. Eventually both Chi Chi and Laurier are tortured and murdered by the Gestapo, and Laurier reveals to von Kleig that Julio is working for the resistance and on an important mission: guiding Allied bombers to destroy a Nazi headquarters in Normandy. Heinrich captures him when he realizes Julio is probably a French agent, but too late: just as the bombs are falling on them, killing both. The final scene is missing from several versions shown. In it, the grandchildrens parents are listening helplessly on the telephone as the deaths happen. The final words are from one set of parents to another: "Our children have killed each other".
Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (film)
1962