Foxy Brown (Pam Grier) seeks revenge when her government-agent boyfriend is shot down by members of a drug syndicate at her doorstep. She links her boyfriends murderers to a "modeling agency" run by Steve Elias (Peter Brown) and Miss Kathryn (Kathryn Loder) that services local judges, congressmen, and police in the area. Foxy decides to pose as a prostitute to infiltrate the company, and helps save a fellow black woman from a life of drugs and sexual exploitation, and reunites her with her husband and child. Not long after she infiltrates the company, her relationship to her late boyfriend and Link Brown, her brother who ratted him out, is exposed, and she is caught before she can escape. After an exchange of words and heated death threats, Miss Kathryn decides to keep her alive in hopes of her being worth some money in the sex-slave trade. They give her a shot of heroin and then send her to a farm which is actually a drug manufacturing plant, with two of Miss Kathryns henchmen. After she wakes from her sleep, she tries to escape her captors, but is caught by one of the henchmen with a whip and dragged back to the bedroom, where he proceeds to tie her to the bed. Then, Kathryns second goon comes and gives Foxy another shot of heroin; the dealer begins to eye Foxy, quoting, "Im beginning to get that ole feeling" before he begins fondling her breasts and rips off her bra. Tied up and defenseless, the dealer rapes her and leaves. Using her quick thinking, Foxy uses a razor to get free and escape her captors by setting the farm on fire. Ms. Kathryn orders her boyfriend to kill Foxy. He attempts to scare information out of her brother, but to no avail. He then kills him and his girlfriend. Foxy asks her Black Panther brothers for help. They take Steve and cut off his genitals. Foxy comes to Ms. Kathryns house and shows her the jar containing Steves genitals. She kills two of the guards and shoots Kathryn in the arm. Foxy says that death is too easy for her and wants her to suffer the way that Ms. Kathryn made her suffer.
Foxy Brown (film)
1974