In the summer of 1958 at Camp Crystal Lake, two counselors named Barry and Claudette sneak away from a campfire and into a storage barn. They prepare to have sex before an unseen assailant enters and murders them. Twenty one years later, on Friday, June 13, 1979, newly hired counselor Annie Phillips asks for directions to the reopened Camp Crystal Lake. An elderly man, Crazy Ralph, warns her against going, believing that the camp has a "death curse." A friendly truck driver named Enos agrees to give Annie a lift halfway to the camp. During the drive, Enos warns Annie about the camp, informing her that a young boy drowned at Crystal Lake in 1957 and about the two murders the following year. After Enos drops her off, Annie hitches another ride from an unseen assailant, who chases her into the woods and slashes her throat. At the camp, counselors Ned, Jack, Bill, Marcie, Brenda, and Alice, along with the owner Steve Christy, refurbish the cabins and facilities. As a thunderstorm approaches, Steve leaves the campground to stock supplies. Meanwhile, the killer arrives at the camp and begins to murder the counselors one by one. After a few strange incidents, Ned sees someone walk into one of the cabins and follows. As Jack and Marcie have sex in one of the cabins bunk beds, they are unaware of Neds body directly above them, with his throat slit. Soon after, Jack is killed when his throat is pierced with an arrow from beneath the bed, and the killer murders Marcie by slamming an axe into her face. Brenda hears a childs voice calling for help and ventures outside her cabin to the archery range, only for the range lights to turn on as she is attacked off-screen. Eventually, Steve returns to the camp and is killed. Alice and Bill are worried by their friends disappearances, and they leave the main cabin to investigate, only to discover a bloody axe in Brendas bed, the phones disconnected, and the cars inoperable. When the power goes out, Bill goes to check on the generator. Alice then heads out to look for him. Upon finding Bills body impaled with arrows to the generator rooms door, she flees back to the main cabin to hide only to be traumatized further when Brendas body is thrown through the window. Alice sees a vehicle pull up and rushes outside, thinking it is Steve. Instead, she is greeted by a middle-aged woman named Mrs. Voorhees, who claims to be an old friend of Steves. As Alice brings her inside, Mrs. Voorhees reveals that her son Jason was the boy who drowned in 1957. She blames his death on the counselors who were supposed to be watching him but instead were having sex, not paying attention to Jasons drowning. Revealing herself as the killer, Mrs. Voorhees turns violent and rushes toward Alice with a bowie knife, attempting to kill her. In the ensuing chase, Alice finds Annies body inside Mrs. Voorhees car and Steves body hanging from the roof. Following a confrontation in which Mrs. Voorhees is knocked out, Alice escapes to the shore. Just as she begins to relax, Mrs. Voorhees finds her and attempts to kill her again. During the final struggle, Alice decapitates her with a machete. Afterwards, a traumatized Alice boards and falls asleep inside a canoe, which floats out on Crystal Lake. Just as Alice awakens and sees police arriving, Jasons decomposing body suddenly emerges and drags her underwater. She then awakens in a hospital, where a police officer and medical staff tend to her. When she asks about Jason, the officer says that there was no sign of any boy. Alice says, "Hes still there," as the lake is shown at peace.
Friday the 13th (1980 film)
1980