Craig Jones, a young man living in South Central Los Angeles, has just lost his job after being framed for stealing on his day off. Not having any plans, he hangs out on his front porch with his best friend, Smokey, a carefree, mischievous drug dealer who sells weed for Big Worm, the psychopathic neighborhood supplier. Throughout the day, Craig and Smokey observe the goings-on in their neighborhood. They encounter Ezail, who supports his drug habit with petty crime; Debbie, an attractive girl Craig has an interest in; Craigs neighbor, Stanley, whose wealth-like supercilious attitude bemuses Craig; Red, Craigs former co-worker and childhood friend whose bike and necklace have been forcibly taken by Deebo, the neighborhood bully and also enlists Smokeys aid in a burglary of Stanleys house; Pastor Clevor, the neighborhood pastor, who is caught sleeping with Mrs. Parker by her husband Mr. Parker; and Felisha, Debbies sister and Deebos girlfriend, who irritates everyone in the neighborhood with her constant begging. Smokey, who has been smoking rather than selling his consignment of marijuana, has a confrontation with Big Worm. In an attempt to explain his money shortage, Smokey incriminates Craig. Big Worm threatens to kill them both if they do not give him $200 by 10:00 P.M. Craig angrily confronts Smokey about his lack of initiative in selling the marijuana before deciding to help Smokey. Craig unsuccessfully attempts to borrow money from his mother Betty; his sister, Dana; and his insanely jealous girlfriend, Joi. Craigs father, Willie, eventually learns of Craigs plan, as well as the fact that Craig is carrying a gun. Willie talks to him, explaining that Craig should use his fists, instead of guns, to resolve his problems, all the while telling Craig the story of how his uncle, who was Willies brother, lost his life due to gun violence. Later on, while Craig and Smokey discuss their dilemma, they are interrupted by the arrival of Rita, a girl whom Debbie set Smokey up with earlier. Smokey then discovers she lied about her looks. Instead of resembling Janet Jackson as she originally claimed, Rita is obese and bald and, in Smokeys words: "looking more like Freddie Jackson." Smokey heads to Debbies house to complain and notices Reds bike on the lawn. He sneaks in and finds Deebo asleep with Felisha. Smokey tries to reclaim the money that he and Deebo stole from Stanley earlier, but is interrupted by Ezail. Both escape without the money before Deebo wakes up. Smokey returns to Craigs house to tell him, and Craig agrees to go back with Smokey to try again, but at that moment, Deebo rides past them. The two notice a black car driving slowly and hide, suspecting a possible drive-by shooting. Scared, they run to Craigs room. Then, after Willie confronts them with the situation with Big Worm, and with 10:00 approaching, they decide step out. Once outside, they notice the van parked in the street with its headlights off. The two flee as men in the van start shooting at them. The neighbors emerge from their homes upon hearing the gunshots. Debbie then confronts Deebo for assaulting Felisha after Deebo falsely accuses Felisha of Smokeys attempted theft. Deebo eventually assaults Debbie, as Craig and Smokey arrive. Angered that Deebo has struck Debbie, Craig stands up to him, and threatens him with his gun. Deebo scoffs at the threat and Willie encourages Craig to put down the weapon and fight with his hands. Craig and Deebo fight. After nearly losing, Craig emerges victorious by using various objects as weapons. As Debbie tends to Craig, Smokey steals the money from an unconscious Deebo and flees the scene. Red punches Deebo again to ensure he doesnt wake up and retrieves his chain and bicycle while Ezail steals Deebos shoes. Craig and Debbie agree to meet up the following day and Craig breaks up with Joi over the phone. Later, Smokey settles with Big Worm, and ends the feud. He announces that he is giving up drug dealing and going to drug rehabilitation. After hanging up, Smokey looks up, lights a joint and ends the film, saying to the audience, "I was just bullshittin! And you know this, man!"
Friday (1995 film)
2000