A New York City brewer by the name of Karl Pfeiffer takes a stand against President Wilsons decision to send troops to Europe to support the Allies in World War I. Karl is a native German who doesnt want his birthplace destroyed in the war. Trying to find another way to help stop the war, Karl is an easy target for the cunning saboteur Anton Miller. Miller meets Karl posing as propaganda expert named George Stewart, and can persuades Karl to donate $50,000 to the cause of stopping the war. The check will be ready for picking up the day after at Karls home on Manhattan. That same evening Karl attends a dinner in honor of Henry Block, who is the father of June, who is about to marry Karls son. When it comes to politics, Henrys views are opposite of Karls and they often start to argue when they meet. Because of Karls views and bad temper the rest of the family have kept it a secret that his son William has joined the Army. At the dinner Karl is told about this and reacts as expected with an outburst. He leaves the apartment in anger, but tries to persuade his son to change his mind the following day. Miller is interested when he hears that the famously wealthy Henry is soon to be related to Karl, and wants to meet up with him. William stands by his decision to fight in the war, and soon he embarks with a military transport ship out of the New York City harbor. On the way to Europe the ship is sunk by saboteurs and Karl gets a message from Miller that the money he donated was well spent. Realizing his mistake in trusting Miller, the devastated Karl decides to venge his son by killing Miller. Henry comes to his aid, and together they come up with a plan to disclose Miller as a saboteur instead. They arrange a meeting between Miller and Henry, at which Miller is forced to reveal his identity and is arrested by the police. Later, it turns out that William wasnt killed when the ship sunk, and he comes home to reunite with his family and wife. Having learnt his lesson, Karl decides to give up his political beliefs and care for his family instead. The fact that he has become a true American patriot is displayed in full when he sings "My country tis of thee" together with his family.
Friendly Enemies
1942