Seventeen-year-old Charley Brewster is a fan of both traditional horror films and a horror TV series entitled Fright Night, hosted by former movie vampire hunter Peter Vincent. One evening, Charley discovers that his new next door neighbour Jerry Dandrige, is a vampire responsible for the disappearances of several victims. Charley tries to tell his mother and asks his friends for help. In desperation, he contacts the cops, Detective Lennox goes with Charley to Jerrys house to question him but his "roommate" Billy Cole tells them that Jerry is "away on business". Charley reveals his suspicions and the detective furiously leaves. That night, Charley is surprised to see Jerry in his house after his mother invites him in (after Charleys friend "Evil Ed" Thompson tells him a vampire cant enter someones home without an invitation). Later on, Charley gets a visit from Jerry, who offers Charley a choice: forget about his vampire identity - or else. Charlie refuses, brandishing his crucifix at Jerry. When Jerry stops Charley and slowly tries to push him out the window to his death, Charlie stabs Jerrys hand with a pencil. Enraged, Jerry destroys Charleys car in retaliation and informs Charley that he will do much worse to him tomorrow night. Charley turns to Peter Vincent for help, but Peter dismisses Charley as an obsessed fan. Charleys girlfriend, Amy Peterson, fearing for Charleys sanity and safety, hires the destitute Vincent to "prove" that Jerry is not a vampire by having him drink what they claim is "holy water", but it turns out to only be tap water; Jerry has claimed to Peter that drinking actual holy water would be against his religious convictions. Vincent discovers Jerrys true nature after glancing at his pocket mirror and noticing Jerrys lack of a reflection, causing him to accidentally drop and smash the mirror. Vincent then flees, but Jerry learns of his discovery after finding a piece of his pocket mirror on the floor. Jerry hunts down Ed and turns him into a vampire. Ed then visits Vincent and, revealing himself, tries to attack him, only to be warded off when injured by a crucifix. Meanwhile, Jerry chases Charley and Amy into a nightclub. While Charley is trying to call the police for help, Jerry hypnotizes and abducts Amy, who bears a resemblance to Jerrys lost love, and bites her after an intimate moment. With nowhere left to turn, Charley attempts to gain Vincents help once more. A frightened Vincent initially refuses, but he then reluctantly resumes his "Vampire Killer" role as Charley approaches his neighbors house. The two are able to repel Jerrys attack using a crucifix, though only Charleys works since he has faith in its spiritual power. Billy appears and knocks Charley unconscious over the banister, leaving Vincent to flee to Charleys house. There he is surprised by Ed, who attacks him in the form of a wolf, only to be pierced through the heart with a broken table leg held by Vincent. Removing the stake from Eds corpse, Vincent goes to rescue Charley and battle Dandridge. Meanwhile, Charley is locked in with Amy, who is slowly transforming into a vampire. Vincent manages to free him before she awakens, and says the process can be reversed if they destroy Jerry before dawn. Charley and Vincent are then confronted by Billy, who is revealed to be an undead, though non-vampiric servant, and manage to destroy him. Jerry appears, but Vincent is able to lure the overconfident vampire in front of a window using a crucifix (now working due to his renewed faith in its abilities). Just before the morning sun, Jerry transforms into a bat and attacks Vincent and Charley before fleeing to his coffin in the basement. Charley and Vincent pursue Jerry; Vincent breaks open Jerrys coffin and tries to stake him through the heart while Charley fights off Amy, who has almost completed her transformation. By breaking the blacked-out windows in the basement, Vincent and Charley expose Jerry to the sunlight, destroying him. Jerrys destruction leads to Amy reverting to her human form, and the three embrace. A few nights later, Vincent returns to his Fright Night TV series and announces a hiatus from vampires by instead presenting Octaman. The series is being watched by Charley and Amy as they embrace in bed. As Charley gets up to turn off the TV, he at first sees red eyes in Jerrys now-vacant house, but dismisses them. Unbeknownst to both Charley and Amy, the still undead Ed (hiding in the darkness) laughs and says, "Oh, youre so cool, Brewster!"
Fright Night
1988