George and Ann Farber, their son Georgie, and their dog Lucky arrive at their lake house. Their next-door neighbour, Fred, is seen with two young men, Peter and Paul. They find Fred reacting somewhat awkwardly. Fred and Paul come over to help put the boat into the lake. After they leave, George and Georgie stay outside by the lake, tending to their boat. Georgie asks his father why Fred was behaving so strangely. While Ann is in the kitchen cooking, Peter comes by to borrow some eggs. Ann gives him the eggs but Peter drops them. Feeling a little annoyed, Ann gives him another four eggs and Peter takes off. Soon afterwards she hears Lucky barking and Peter and Paul show up together. Paul asks her to try out one of the clubs outside and she begrudgingly approves. In the boat, George and Georgie hear Lucky barking hysterically when suddenly the barking stops. Peter and Paul request more eggs, as the last ones also ended up broken. Ann becomes frustrated, but when George tries to force the men to leave, Peter breaks Georges leg with the golf club. The two young men then take the family hostage. Paul guides Ann on a hunt to find the familys dog, which he has killed with Georges golf club. When their neighbors, the Thompsons, visit, Ann passes the two men off as friends. They return to the house, and the Farbers are forced to participate in a number of sadistic games in order to stay alive. Paul asks if George or Ann wants to bet that they will be alive by 9:00 in the morning, and says that he and Peter are betting they will not be. Between playing their games, the two men keep up a constant patter. Paul frequently ridicules Peters weight and lack of intelligence. He describes a number of contradicting stories of Peters past, although no definitive explanation is ever presented as to the mens origins or motives. During the "games", Peter and Paul put Georgies head in a bag, nearly suffocating him; Ann is forced to undress to make them stop. When released from the bag, Georgie tries to escape under the help of his parents. He goes to the neighbors empty house, where he discovers their corpses. Paul goes out searching for Georgie after subduing Ann with tape, leaving Peter to guard her and George. Ann begs him to let them go, but Peter refuses. When found, Georgie attempts to shoot Paul with a shotgun, but the gun fails to go off. Paul returns him to the living room, along with the shotgun. The men play a new game, saying whoever gets counted out will be shot. Georgie panics and runs, which results in Peter shooting and killing him. George and Ann are grief-stricken, but they eventually resolve to survive. Ann is able to free herself and flee the house while George, with a broken leg, desperately tries to make a call on the malfunctioning phone. Ann fails to find help, only to be re-captured by Peter and Paul, who bring her back to the house. After stabbing George, they tell Ann to make a choice for her husband; a painful and prolonged death with the knife, or a quick death with the shotgun. Ann seizes the shotgun on the table in front of her and kills Peter. An enraged Paul grabs the shotgun and starts looking for the television remote. Upon finding it, he rewinds the last occurrences back to a moment before Ann grabs the shotgun, thereby breaking the fourth wall. On the "do over", Paul snatches the shotgun away and admonishes her, saying she is not allowed to break the rules. Peter and Paul kill George and take Ann, bound and gagged, out onto the familys boat. Ann tries to free herself, but is caught by Paul and Peter. Around eight oclock in the morning, they nonchalantly throw her into the water to drown, thus winning their bet. They knock on the door of the Thompsons house and request some eggs. The film ends with Paul glancing at the camera with a smirk.
Funny Games (2008 film)
2008