In the year 2000, Dick Harper (Jim Carrey) has been promoted to Vice President of Communications for a large media corporation known as Globodyne. The following day, he is on a television program with presidential candidate Ralph Nader, who calls Globodyne "perverters of the American dream", claiming it helps the super-rich get even wealthier. As they speak, Globodynes stock value collapses, rendering all investments – including all the employees savings and pensions – worthless. Dick arrives home, where his wife Jane (Téa Leoni) tells him that she quit her job as a travel agent following his promotion to spend more time with the family. Dick breaks the news of the companys failure over dinner. Despite his attempts, Dick is unable to find another job with comparable pay, and within a short time, the family faces bankruptcy. After accepting the prospect of being poor, Dick and Jane apply for low-paying jobs. Both are unable to keep them, and soon their utilities are cut off, forcing them to sell off personal property to stay afloat. When they are confronted with a 24-hour eviction notice, Dick decides to turn to a life of crime. After several failed robbery attempts, Dick and Jane successfully rob a head shop. They begin nightly robbing sprees and become more comfortable and professional over time. They soon steal enough money to pay off their debts including their house and car, both of which were about to be repossessed. For one last heist, Dick and Jane plan to rob a local bank. All goes as planned until the Petersons – another couple formerly employed at Globodyne – make an amateurish attempt to rob the same bank. The Petersons are quickly arrested, and the Harpers take advantage of the hysteria to evade police and escape. After watching news footage of the arrests and other crimes committed by former Globodyne employees, the Harpers decide to cease criminal activity and live a normal life again. Dick, however, discovers that hes about to be indicted for his unwitting role in Globodynes demise. At a local bar, Dick encounters Frank Bascombe (Richard Jenkins), the former CFO of Globodyne, who is drunk and guilt-ridden. Frank tells Dick the companys crooked CEO Jack McCallister (Alec Baldwin) diverted all of Globodynes assets and dumped all of his stock, thus ruining the company and its employees while embezzling a $400-million fortune. Frank, who is about to go to prison after a failed attempt to expose McCallisters crimes, has received a $10 million bribe from McCallister in exchange for his silence. After learning about McCallisters scheme, Dick, Jane and Frank decide to take revenge. Frank tells them McCallister plans to transfer his $400 million in bearer bonds to an offshore account. Dick and Jane intercept the transfer form inside the bank and substitute a fake form, transferring the funds to an account Frank has established. McCallister notices the account number on the form and demands to have it corrected. Dick confronts McCallister and demands that he sign a blank check. Knowing Dicks threats are empty, McCallister writes him a check for $100 and leaves the bank. Dick tells Jane that was his contingency plan; Jane, an art major in college, can now forge McCallisters signature. The next day, McCallister is mobbed by reporters and former Globodyne employees, all praising him for his generosity. Dick appears, and as McCallisters vice president, hands him a prepared statement, which McCallister reads on live television. McCallister is shocked to announce that he has transferred $400 million to a trust fund to support Globodynes defunct pension plan in gratitude to his former employees. Dick, Jane, and Frank lead the cheers from the crowd, while McCallister faces them, unable to expose the trio without revealing his own crimes. A news report later shows Dick and Jane delivering pension fund checks to former Globodyne employees, including the now-imprisoned Petersons, implies that Dick has avoided indictment, while reporting that McCallisters net worth has been reduced to only $2,283. A year later, Dicks family drives a rusty old Volkswagen into the sunset. While Billy is teaching his parents Spanish, a Bentley containing Dicks friend Garth (John Michael Higgins) approaches. Garth tells Dick he has a new job at a company called Enron.
Fun with Dick and Jane (2005 film)
2005