In April 1945, the Allies make their final push into Nazi Germany. Don "Wardaddy" Collier, a battle-hardened U.S. Army staff sergeant in the Second Armored Division, commands an M4 Sherman "Easy Eight" tank nicknamed Fury and its veteran crew: gunner Boyd "Bible" Swan, loader Grady "Coon-Ass" Travis, driver Trini "Gordo" Garcia, and assistant driver–bow gunner "Red". They have been together since the North African campaign. Red is killed in action and replaced by Private Norman Ellison, a fresh recruit trained only as a clerk typist. As they move deeper into Germany, Normans inexperience becomes dangerous: he spots but fails to shoot Hitler Youth child soldiers who ambush the commanding officers tank with a Panzerfaust, killing the entire crew; later, he hesitates under fire during a skirmish with anti-tank guns. Don is angered at his incompetence; after the battle, he orders Norman to execute a captured German soldier for wearing a U.S. Army coat. When Norman refuses, Don wrestles the pistol into his hand and forces him to pull the trigger, killing the prisoner and traumatizing Norman. Don leads the tanks to capture a small German town. While searching an apartment, Don and Norman find a German woman, Irma, and her younger cousin, Emma. Don pays them cigarettes for a hot meal and some hot water for a shave. Norman and Emma then go into the bedroom, bond, and have sex. As the four sit down to eat, the rest of the crew drunkenly barges in, harassing the women and bullying Norman, but Don keeps them firmly in line. They are then called away for an urgent mission, but as the men prepare to leave, German artillery targets the town; Emma is killed in the bombardment, traumatizing Norman further. The tank platoon is ordered to capture and hold a vital crossroads to protect the divisions rear echelon. En route, they are ambushed by a Tiger tank. The Fury eventually destroys the Tiger by out-manoeuvring it and firing into its thinner rear armor. With the other Allied tanks destroyed and their radio damaged, the Fury is forced to continue on alone. Upon arriving at the crossroads, the tank is immobilized by a landmine. Don sends Norman to scout a nearby hill; there, Norman spots a Waffen-SS battalion approaching their position. The crew wants to flee, but Don decides to stay, compelling the others to stay and fight. The men disguise Fury to make it appear knocked out, and then hide inside. While they wait, Norman is finally accepted by the crew and given his nickname: "Machine." They then ambush the arriving Germans, inflicting heavy casualties in a long and vicious battle. One by one, Grady is killed by a Panzerfaust that penetrates the turret; Gordo is shot while unpinning a grenade and sacrifices himself by covering it; a sniper kills Bible and badly wounds Don. Out of ammunition and surrounded, Don orders Norman to escape through an emergency hatch in the floor as the Germans drop grenades into the tank. Norman slips out just before they explode, killing Don. Norman tries to hide as the Germans move on but is spotted by a young SS soldier, who hesitates, then leaves without alerting his comrades. The next morning, Norman crawls back into the tank, where he covers Dons body with his jacket. He is then rescued by American soldiers, who praise him as a hero. As Norman is driven away in an ambulance, he looks back at the hundreds of dead Germans lying around the destroyed Fury.
Fury (2014 film)
2014