The former cast of the cult television space-adventure series Galaxy Quest spend most of their days attending fan conventions and promotional stunts. Though Jason Nesmith, the series former lead star, thrives on the attention, the other cast members — Gwen DeMarco, Alexander Dane, Fred Kwan and Tommy Webber, resent Nesmiths irresponsible and self-serving attitude. During a convention, Nesmith is approached by a group calling themselves Thermians, led by Mathesar, who request his help; believing this to be a scheduled fan event, he agrees to be picked up the next morning. Nesmith is unaware that the Thermians are really aliens, tentacled beings using human holographic disguises. Nesmith is hungover when he is picked up, and falls asleep as they take him through space to a exact, functional version of the NSEA Protector, the starship from Galaxy Quest. Still hazy, Nesmith proceeds to give orders as captain, directing them to strike on Sarris, a warlord that seeks to eliminate the Thermians. Only when Nesmith is transported back to Earth does he realize that the ship is real. Nesmith eagerly explains the events of the previous day to his cast members, but they consider it part of his drunken ramblings. When Laliari, another Thermian, appears and requests Nesmiths help further, he convinces the cast including their handler Guy Fleegman, who cameoed as a redshirt in an episode, to join him. Once aboard the Protector, they are astonished by the ship, and stumble with the controls, as the Thermians only built the ship to the shows specifications but do not know how to operate it. When Sarris attacks again, they evade through a magnetic minefield and take heavy damage, disabling their power core. The humans take a shuttle to a nearby planet to recover a new power core, having to deal with its hostile native lifeforms. By the time they return, they find that Sarris has taken over the Protector. Sarris discovers that the Thermians, having no understanding of the concept of fiction, took Galaxy Quest as a documentary, and Nesmith is forced to explain they are actors to Mathesar. Sarris sets the self-destruct mechanism and leaves a sacrificial guard aboard while he returns to his ship. Nesmith and Dane use a tactic from the show to overpower their guards and free the others. While the cast and Thermian crew make repairs and familiarize themselves with the ship, Nesmith and DeMarco travel through the bowels of the ship to shut off the self-destruct sequence, aided over a misplaced Thermian communicator by superfan Brandon and his friends on Earth with detailed knowledge of the show. With the ship repaired, Nesmith leads his cast and the Thermians to attack Sarris ship with the magnetic mines, destroying it. The crew prepares to head home through a black hole and leaving Mathesar in command, with Nesmith giving him confidence that the Thermians can run the ship. Suddenly Sarris, who had teleported onto the Protector just before his ship was destroyed, appears on the bridge and attacks them. Nesmith activates "Omega-13", a plot device from the show that reverts time back 13 seconds, giving him opportunity to knock out Sarris when he first appears. The cast say their goodbyes, though Laliari, who has fallen in love with Kwan, goes with the cast. The command module is flung back to Earth, but the cast have no indicators where to land. Brandon and his friends set off fireworks near a convention center to guide them. The module comes to a crash landing, breaking through the centers wall into an auditorium, and as the crew exit the module, the gathered fans assume this is part of the act. Sarris wakes up and attempts to fire on the cast, but Nesmith is able to vaporize him with a weapon. The fans cheer in excitement. Some time later, a revival of Galaxy Quest is announced, with the same cast, including Fleegman and Laliari.
Galaxy Quest
1999