On a desolate, storm-lashed planet called Morganthus, the last survivor of a crashed spaceship is attacked and killed by an unseen force. On another planet a very long distance away, two figures are seen playing a strange game. One, an old woman named Mitri, is identified as the controller of the game while the other, whose head is obscured by a glowing ball of red light, turns out to be an all-powerful mystic called the Planet Master. The two speak cryptically of things being put into motion, and the Master instructs one of his military commanders to send a ship to Morganthus. Without delay, the spaceship Quest blasts off to Morganthus, piloted Captain Trantor (Grace Zabriskie), a survivor from a famous space disaster that has left her psychologically scarred and unstable. As the Quest approaches the planet’s atmosphere, it suddenly veers out of control and plunges toward the surface, crash-landing there. After recovering from the landing, the crew prepare to leave the Quest and search for survivors. The team has a psi-sensitive woman among their number named Alluma (Erin Moran). Both she and the surface team have significant problems with team leader Baelon (Zalman King), who is pushy and arrogant and totally unimpressed by Allumas inability to detect any lifesigns whatsoever. They across the landscape of the planet, they eventually reach the other vessel. Entering, they find evidence of a massacre that took place. The rescue teams split into two and explore the craft. They find further evidence of something catastrophic having happened and, after disposing of the rest, take one victim back for analysis. Cos, the highly-strung youngest member of the team, despite being reassured by his seniors, becomes increasingly terrified by being on the ship and, a short time later, he is killed by a grotesque creature. The crew discover that something from the planet pulled them down, and, in order to escape, they must investigate. While Trantor, Kore (Ray Walston), and Ranger (Robert Englund) remain on the ship, Cabron (Edward Albert), Dameia (Taffee O’Connell), Quuhod (Sid Haig), Baelon, Illvar (Bernard Behrens), and Alluma explore the planet. They discover a massive pyramid-shaped structure, which Alluma describes as "empty" and "dead". They find an opening at the top of the pyramid and use a rope to slide Illvar in; Illvar is attacked by tentacles that drain his blood. They find an alternate entrance, though Quuhod breaks his crystal throwing stars and remains by the entrance. The throwing stars reform; when Quuhod picks it up, a piece breaks off and begins sliding through his skin, forcing him to sever his arm. However, his arm uses the remaining throwing Star to impale him. The crew continue to search through the pyramid, and Alluma voices a desire to leave. However, Baelon refuses to allow it. Angered, Dameia wanders into another area and discovers Quuhod’s severed arm being eaten by maggots. One maggot grows to giant size, and kills Dameia. Back on the ship, Ranger sees on the security cameras Trantor spontaneously combusting; he runs toward her, only to find her skin completely burned off. After discovering Dameia’s corpse, they head back to the ship. The remaining crew return to the pyramid. There, Baelon elects to stay behind, and is torn apart by a monster. Alluma, Ranger, and Cabren are separated by moving walls. Alluma is attacked by tentacles which crush her head, while Ranger is attacked by his double, but he manages to fend it off, and the double disappears. Deep inside the pyramid, Cabren encounters that Kore is really the Master, who has been masquerading as him on board the Quest. The Master explains that the pyramid is actually an ancient toy for the children of a long-extinct race, built in order to test their ability to control fear, and that Ranger has succeeded. Cabren is then forced to confront the creatures which attacked the crew, and zombified versions of the dead crew, all of which he kills. Cabren kills the Master for allowing his crew to die, but becomes the new Master in his place.
Galaxy of Terror
1981