When Father Dick Ball (Charles Kemper) in San Diego, California, recalls his childhood friend, John Joseph Montgomery (Glenn Ford), he recounts the story of the first American to ever fly a glider in 1883. As early as 1879, John told his girlfriend Regina Cleary (Janet Blair) about his dreams of flying, although his family was very much opposed to this idea and considered him a fool. Regina believed in him, and secretly supported his work, until the first test flight in 1883, which was successful. John named his flying machine, an "aeroplane". Johns prominent father, Zachary Montgomery, who had become Assistant Attorney General of the United States was keen on keeping his reputation intact. When he received news of his sons endeavors, he told him to stop his foolishness and continue his clergy studies instead. Father Ball became interested in Johns work and supported his research and experiments. Another priest, Father Kenton (Arthur Shields), turned out to be an aviation enthusiast, and helped John with his inventions, arranging a job for him at a Santa Clara workshop. John continued his work for a few years, and built several model aircraft, preparing for a full-scale test flight. The only thing standing in his way is a medical condition making him dizzy and causing him to collapse. He is told by a doctor that he will never be able to fly safely suffering from this illness. John is disappointed, but his confidence is renewed when he encounters the parachute enthusiast and performer Dan Mahoney, who offers to pull the glider up in the air with his hot air balloon. The two fathers help John to complete a successful test flight with his new glider. Unfortunately his poor finances prevent him from pursuing his passion for flying any longer, even though many people show their interest in his work. A series of misfortunes and unfortunate events serve as additional discouragement for John, when Dan crashes and dies during a test flight, and an earthquake destroys his glider. Still John manages to scrape together $25,000 by selling his valuable belongings. He marries Regina, but is later dragged into court by a man who claims to be the rightful owner of an object John sold to get his money. The lengthy trial consumes all of Johns money, but the judge rules in his favor at the end. John decides to give flying one more go and builds his own new glider design. He decides to fly it himself. In mid-air he gets a dizzy spell, loses control and crashes to the ground. He dies from his injuries a few hours later.
Gallant Journey
1946