British art curator Harry Deane (Colin Firth) decides to seek revenge on his abusive boss Lord Shabandar (Alan Rickman) by conning him into buying a fake Monet ("Haystacks at Dusk"), to complement the one he already has ("Haystacks at Dawn"). He teams up with a master art forger, the Major (Tom Courtenay), and travels to Alpine, Texas. He searches for rodeo queen PJ Puznowski (Cameron Diaz), the granddaughter of the sergeant responsible for capturing Hermann Göring in 1945. Harry explains that PJs participation will lend authenticity since the Monet was last seen at Carinhall after being plundered by the Nazis. She agrees and the next day the three drive out to PJs grandmothers mobile home out in the desert. They hang the fake Monet on the wall and take a picture with the painting in the background. The picture is to appear with an article on the rodeo queen that will be published in a magazine that is part of Shabandars media empire. Back in London, Harry meets with Shabandar and discusses the photos of PJ and her grandmother, turning the attention to the painting. Shabandar replies that it is a reproduction, based on the fact that it is hanging on the wall of a mobile home in Texas. Harry suggests that they at least check to see if the painting is real or not, because the painting is so rarely reproduced. Shabandar reluctantly agrees, and Harry tries to find PJ to follow up on the matter. PJ offers the painting to Shabandar for 12 million pounds sterling, but only after arranging to meet him at the Savoy Hotel, which Harry can barely afford. Harrys frustration with PJ grows after she accepts romantic advances from Shabandar. While they are alone, Shabandar tells PJ that a different art curator named Martin Zaidenweber (Stanley Tucci) will replace Harry. PJ meets Zaidenweber and tells him that the painting has been hanging in her house since she was a little girl. When Shabandar opines that Harry is an idiot, Zaidenweber counters that Harry is a good man who simply has a bad eye for art. Back at the hotel, PJ tells Harry that she no longer wants any part in his plan. The following night, PJ has dinner with Shabandar again. They are stopped by his rival businessman, Akira Takagawa, who has wanted revenge ever since losing to Shabandar in a 1992 auction for the first Haystacks painting. By the time she leaves, Harry has called Zaidenweber and convinced him to abandon his partnership with Shabandar. Meeting Harry in the courtyard, PJ agrees to take part in the plan once more. When they arrive at Shabandars masquerade ball, Harry heads to the gallery, counting on PJ to distract Shabandar while he makes final preparations. As the inspection is about to begin, Zaidenweber arrives, having lied to Harry and remained loyal to Shabandar. He announces that the painting is real, but suddenly, Harry speaks up and disagrees. To everyones shock, Harry wipes away paint to reveal the likeness of Queen Elizabeth II underneath. Shabandar announces that PJ will be of no further use to him and tries to re-hire Harry. Harry turns him down, noting his disapproval of the way Shabandar has treated PJ. Harry and the Major meet with Takagawa and his men. It is revealed that the Major had painted copies for both "Dusk" and "Dawn" paintings. Harry had removed the staples on the canvas of the real "Dawn" painting and switched it with its copy. Takagawa tells Harry that his payment for the real "Haystacks at Dawn" Monet, 10 million pounds, has been transferred to his Swiss bank account. Harry and the Major thank Takagawa, and head on their way. Meanwhile, while PJ goes through security, she finds a painting from Harry as a gift. She smiles, just before boarding the plane. The end of the film shows Harry and the Major walking through the airport talking about Donald Trumps fascination with Picasso.
Gambit (2012 film)
2012