Mike Lee (Robert Barrat) raises his daughter Lady Lee (Barbara Stanwyck) to be as honest a gambler as he is. When he gets too much in debt to the underworld syndicate headed by Jim Fallin, he commits suicide rather than be pressured into running a crooked game. Lady initially goes to work for Fallin, then quits and sets out on her own when he tries to "help" her by providing a crooked dealer. Longtime admirer and bookie Charlie Lang (Pat OBrien) proposes to her, but it is persistent young Garry Madison (Joel McCrea) who wins her heart (despite unknowingly bringing two policemen in disguise to the illegal gambling den where she is playing). She resists marrying him, fearing the reaction of his high society father, but is pleased to learn that she already knows and likes Peter Madison (C. Aubrey Smith), a fellow gambler. However, Peter does disapprove of the union, offering to buy her off. When she rejects his money, but meekly gives up Garry, he realizes he has mistaken her motives. Being a sporting man, he offers to cut cards for his son. He draws a jack, but Lady picks a queen, and the young couple get married.  They are happy at first, but then both feel the pangs of jealousy. When Garrys old girlfriend, Sheila Aiken (Claire Dodd), returns from Europe, he makes the mistake of greeting her too warmly. Lady challenges her to a game of cards, and wins her jewelry. When Charlie Lang is arrested, Garry refuses his wifes request for $10,000 to bail him out, so she pawns Sheilas jewels to raise the money. Charlie offers to reimburse her, telling her that he intends to pressure the syndicate into paying for his silence about what he knows. Garry becomes incensed when Ladys involvement with Charlie is reported in the newspapers. He goes out to recover the pawn ticket, now in Charlies hands. Garry does not return that night. The next day, two policemen inform Lady that Garry has been arrested for Charlies murder, having been seen arguing with him and later being found in possession of the pawn ticket. Lady figures out that Garry spent the night with Sheila, but is unwilling to use that as an alibi. Lady sees Sheila, who is willing to testify, but only if Lady divorces her husband and insists on $250,000 alimony. Lady agrees to her terms. Garry is released and the divorce is granted. Both Garry and Peter believe at first that Lady was in it for the money all along, but when Peter sees her tear up the check, he realizes they were wrong. Garry tricks Sheila into admitting the truth, then reconciles with Lady.
Gambling Lady
1934