World-famous opera singer Alice Alquist has just been murdered. The perpetrator bolted, without the jewels he sought, after being interrupted by a child—Paula (Terry Moore)—Alices niece, who was raised by her aunt following Paulas own mothers death years earlier. Paula is sent to Italy so that she can train to be an opera star with the same teacher who once trained Alice. Paula studies with him for years, all the while trying to forget that terrible night at Number 9 Thornton Square in London. Now an adult, Paula (Ingrid Bergman) meets Gregory Anton (Charles Boyer), and, in the course of a two-week-long whirlwind romance, falls in love with him and they quickly marry. Paula ends her long tutelage to marry him, and he persuades her to leave the society and friends she knows to return to London, where she knows no one, to live in the long-vacant London townhouse her aunt bequeathed her. To help calm her anxieties, Gregory suggests they store all of Alices furnishings in the attic. Before they do, Paula discovers a letter addressed to her aunt by a man named Sergius Bauer, dated only two days before the murder, tucked away in a music book. Gregorys reaction is swift and violent; however, he quickly composes himself, explaining his outburst as one of frustration at the bad memories his bride is experiencing. After Alices belongings are packed away in the attic and the door blocked, events take a turn for the bizarre. At the Tower of London, Paula loses an heirloom brooch that Gregory had given her, despite its having been stored safely in her handbag. A picture disappears from the walls of the house; and Gregory says that Paula took it, one of many instances of her removing and hiding it; but Paula has no recollection of having done so. Paula also hears footsteps coming from above her in the sealed attic, and sees the gaslights dim and brighten for no apparent reason. Gregory suggests that these are all figments of Paulas imagination.  Gregory does everything in his power to isolate his wife. Gregory allows her neither to go out nor to have visitors, implying that he is doing so for her own good, because her nerves have been acting up, causing her to become a kleptomaniac, and to imagine things that are not real. He is also jealous and accusatory whenever others express an interest in her. On the one occasion when Gregory does take her out to a musical gathering at a friends house, he shows Paula his watch chain, from which his watch has mysteriously disappeared. When Gregory finds it in her handbag, Paula becomes hysterical, and he takes her home. Paula begins to believe she should not go out in public. The young maid, Nancy (Angela Lansbury), does little to improve the situation. Whenever Paula shows up, Nancys face betrays a feeling of disdain; Paula becomes convinced that Nancy loathes her. Gregory secretly flirts with the maid and tells Paula she is paranoid and is imagining the maids disdain. Paula does not know that her husband is in fact Sergius Bauer, her aunts murderer. He sought out Paula in Italy, won her heart, married her, and suggested they live in London, all with the aim of getting back into the house to continue searching for Alices jewels. He has been secretly rummaging through Alices belongings in the attic to find the jewels he is certain are there. The footsteps Paula hears in the attic are actually his. The flickering gaslights he claims she has imagined are in fact caused by his turning the attic lights on, thus reducing the flow of gas to the downstairs lights. The kleptomania exhibited by Paula is all a sleight-of-hand ruse perpetrated by Gregory. Gregory does everything in his power to convince his wife that she is going mad, hoping to have her certified as insane and then institutionalized, thus allowing him to continue his search for the jewels without impediment. The plan almost works. Paula is saved by her trip to the Tower of London. Although the visit is the catalyst that enables Gregory to cement his control over her, it also leads to a chance encounter with Inspector Brian Cameron of Scotland Yard (Joseph Cotten), an admirer of Alice Alquist since his childhood. Seeing Paula, whose resemblance to her aunt catches his attention, rekindles Camerons interest in the cold case, an interest that is heightened when he learns that Alquist was in possession of valuable jewels that were never found. That had been kept from the public at the request of a certain royal personage. Cameron was also present at the aforementioned musical gathering and perceived Gregorys strange behavior with a discerning eye. With the aid of the police constable on the beat, Cameron figures out that Gregory slips into a vacant house on the same street, proceeds to the roof, and enters his own attic via a skylight. Cameron eventually manages to get inside the house to see Paula while Gregory is in the attic. Her sanity is quickly restored when he confirms that the gaslights are indeed flickering, and she discovers the letter from Bauer that Gregory had told her was a figment of her imagination. That same evening, Gregory at last discovers the jewels hidden in plain sight, disguised as costume jewelry. However, Cameron accosts him, and with the help of the constable, arrests him. Paula indulges herself in a bit of revenge as she psychologically tortures Gregory, now bound to a chair, tantalizing him with the suggestion that she might free him so he can escape arrest, trial, and execution, before calling in Cameron to take him away.
Gaslight (1944 film)
1944