In 2019, following many catastrophic natural disasters, an international coalition commissions a system of climate-controlling satellites called "Dutch Boy". After Dutch Boy neutralizes a typhoon in Shanghai, a Senate sub-committee reprimands chief architect Jake Lawson for acting without authorization and replaces him with his brother Max, who works under Secretary of State Leonard Dekkom. Three years later in 2022, as a UN team stationed in the Registan Desert comes across a frozen village, Makmoud Habib, an engineer working on the International Climate Space Station (ICSS) copies data from the Afghanistan satellite onto a hard drive before being ejected into space. After convincing President Andrew Palma to conduct an investigation, Max persuades Jake to go to the ICSS to investigate. Another satellite increases temperatures in Hong Kong, causing a firenado that nearly kills Maxs college friend Cheng Long, the head of Dutch Boys Hong Kong department. Jake arrives at ICSS to examine the malfunctioning satellites (which are damaged afterwards and their data erased) with station commander Ute Fassbinder and her crew. Outside the ICSS, they retrieve the hard drive, but hide it from the crew, suspecting a traitor, and recover the data, discovering that a virus has wiped out everyones login access to the satellite and is causing the malfunctions. Suspecting Palma is using Dutch Boy as a weapon, Jake tells Max he needs to reboot the system, which requires the kill code, held by Palma. The ICSS staff neutralize malfunctioning satellites by deliberately knocking them offline via collisions with replacement satellites. Back on Earth, Cheng discovers he and Max have lost login access and warns Max of a global cataclysm known as a "Geostorm" if the malfunction continues. Cheng is pursued to Washington, D.C. by a team of rogue government agents, who ultimately cause his death in a traffic incident, but not before he says "Zeus", Discovering Project Zeus simulates extreme weather patterns to create a Geostorm, Max enlists his girlfriend, Secret Service agent Sarah Wilson, to acquire the code. During the Democratic National Convention in Orlando, Max discovers Orlando is next to be targeted after a massive hailstorm hits Tokyo and part of Rio de Janeiro freezes over. He requests Dekkoms help, but Dekkom instead tries unsuccessfully to kill Max, unveiling himself as the saboteur; Max immediately informs Sarah. The two kidnap Palma to protect him from Dekkoms agents and secure the kill code, which is Palmas biometrics. As they escape from the DNC stadium before a lightning storm destroys it, Max reveals their activities and Dekkoms treachery to Palma. After outsmarting Dekkoms mercenaries, the three arrest and confront Dekkom about his intentions: to decimate Americas fellow governments and line of succession, dominating the world. The ICSS team loses control of all operations as the virus initiates the self-destruct program. As more disasters strike around the world (including tornadoes in Mumbai, a heatwave in Moscow and a tsunami in Dubai), Jake realizes software engineer Duncan is the traitor. In the ensuing confrontation, Duncan accidentally ejects himself into space while Jake escapes. As the crew evacuates, Jake stays behind to ensure the reboot completes. Max and Sarah escort Palma to the Kennedy Space Center, where they transmit the code but learn that the self-destruct sequence cant be stopped. Jake and Ute, who also stayed behind, work together to reboot the system, transferring satellite control to the worlds space agencies and preventing the Geostorm at the last second. The two take shelter in a replacement satellite as the self-destruction sequence completes and use its thrusters as a beacon. A nearby shuttle piloted by crew member Hernandez picks them up. Six months later, Jake works as the head engineer for a new system of satellites, which is now administered by an international committee.
Geostorm
2017