Las Vegas mob enforcer Jack Carter returns home to Seattle after hearing that his brother, Ritchie, was killed in a drunk-driving accident. His partner, Con McCarty, covers for him with the mob boss, Fletcher -whose girlfriend Audrey is having an affair with Jack. At his brothers funeral, Jack meets his niece, Doreen, and Eddie, a friend and coworker of Ritchie. Both tell Jack that Ritchie rarely drank and would never have driven while intoxicated; Eddie also said Ritchie was most certainly not involved in illicit activities. He also talks to a woman, Geraldine, but she is evasive and cryptic about her relationship to Ritchie. At the wake, Jack continues questioning mourners and well-wishers about what happened to his brother, drawing the ire of Ritchies widow. He confronts the owner of the club Ritchie managed, loan shark Cliff Brumby. Brumby doesn’t believe Ritchie was murdered, but does tell Jack that Ritchie was having an affair with Geraldine, an associate of local boss Cyrus Paice. Jack questions Paice but doesn’t get any useful information. He follows Paice and is lead to Jeremy Kinnear, a wealthy computer mogul who hired Paice to discreetly procure beautiful women for him at parties so he can present a "professional" and squeaky-clean image. However, Paice is now blackmailing Kinnear into running Paices pornographic websites. Unable to get any straight answers, Jack carefully examines surveillance tapes from Brumbys club. He discovers that Paice produces amateur porn movies using young girls drugged and raped by Eddie and Geraldine; one video shows Doreen as one of the victims. Geraldine found out Doreen was Ritchie’s daughter and gave the video disc to Richie, but Ritchie was murdered and set up to look like an accident before he could take it to the police. Audrey breaks up with Jack, who tells Fletcher that he is done with Vegas; McCarty and another gangster are sent to confront Jack. Jack talks with Doreen about what happened in the video, comforting her and telling her she is a good person. Jack sets out on a path of vengeance. Geraldine calls Jack, apologizing for what happened to Doreen and says that Paice is coming to kill her; Jack arrives to find her body. He then heads to Eddies apartment to interrogate him. Eddie tells Jack that Paice is at Kinnears; Jack throws him off the balcony to his death. McCarty tracks Jack to Eddies apartment, beginning a car chase; McCarty is forced off the road, crashing violently and presumably killing the mobsters. At Kinnears house, Jack confronts Paice, who claims Kinnear is the man behind Ritchies murder. Jack attempts to hit Paice from behind, but Paice sees him in a reflection and ducks. Paice then pummels him to the ground while commenting that Ritchie put up more of a fight than he did, thereby admitting that he was involved in his brothers death. Paice walks away and joins some women on the busy dance floor. Bloodied, Jack gets up and follows Paice to the dance foor, telling him he should finish what he starts. Paice agrees; he tries to sucker punch Jack, but Jack floors him with one punch before brutally beating Paice. Jack pulls his pistol and points it directly at Paices face, but changes his mind and leaves him on the floor, bloody and unconscious. Jack confronts Kinnear, who says that he only told Paice to get the disc back from Ritchie, not kill him, and that Paice and Brumby committed the murder; Jack lets Kinnear live. Jack finds Brumby attempting to steal the disk from Jack’s car. Brumby admits involvement in the murder, warning Jack that killing him will force him to run for the rest of his life. As Brumby walks away, Jack calls out to him. Brumby wont turn around and Jack shoots him in the back. Having settled the score for his brother, Carter meets Doreen one last time at Ritchies grave and explains that he has to go away for a while. After reminding her that she is special, they say their goodbyes. Carter gets into his car and opens a map that leads to Las Vegas.
Get Carter (2000 film)
2000