James King is an extremely wealthy hedge fund manager at Barrow Funds, run by Martin Barrow. He is engaged to Barrows daughter Alissa. James has come to know Darnell Lewis, a car wash attendant who accidentally frightened James in a parking lot. Darnell and Rita are trying to put their daughter Makayla in a better school, away from the bad neighborhood they live in. During an engagement party for James and Alissa, the FBI arrive and arrest James for fraud and embezzlement. James lawyer, Peter Penny, urges him to go for a guilty plea and a likely short sentence, but James refuses and insists that he will be exonerated. Instead, James is found guilty and sentenced to ten years in San Quentin State Prison, with only 30 days to get his affairs in order. Though forbidden from crossing county lines, James wants to flee the country with Alissa, but she dumps him. James encounters Darnell and, assuming he has been incarcerated before because he is black, begs him for help and agrees to pay him $30,000 to toughen him up for prison. Darnell, who has little idea of how to act tough, trains James by pepper-spraying him, trying to get him to develop a "mad dog" face, and creating scenarios in which James must defend himself, but all of these efforts fail miserably. During the training, James gets in touch with Barrow and says he is getting help. Barrow, the actual crook, thinks James is onto him and orders a hitman named Gayle to monitor him. With no sign that James is toughening up, Darnell figures that James should be prepared in other ways for prison and takes him to a gay hookup spot for James to learn how to perform oral sex in prison. James cant go through with it and tells Darnell that he will keep going and do whatever it takes to "get hard". James starts to work out harder and faster, makes shivs, and learns "keistering" (smuggling contraband in the anus). Darnell simulates a prison raid with help from James domestic staff. In the chaos, James gets a shiv stuck in his head, so Darnell takes James to his home for Rita to treat it. He has dinner and listens to Darnell make up a story of how he went to prison, which is just a retelling of Boyz n the Hood. James and Darnell resolve for James to join a local gang called the Crenshaw Kings to gain protection in prison. However, Darnells cousin Russell, the gang leader, rebuffs James and redirects him to the Alliance of Whites gang. James is unable to be a convincing racist, leading the gang to think he is a cop, but Darnell rescues him by bursting in with a flamethrower. Darnell and James finally deduce that Barrow is the crook. They sneak into his office and find the embezzlement records on Barrows computer. Unfortunately, Gayle finds them and takes back the computer, while informing James that Darnell has never been in prison. Dejected, James returns to the Crenshaw Kings on his own. They accept him and order him to kill someone as their initiation. Darnell arrives in time to convince James to expose Barrow. The two sneak onto Barrows yacht to retrieve the computer, only to come across Gayle and his men. James unleashes a series of capoeira moves on them before Barrow and Alissa arrive, both confessing to the fraud and embezzlement, a scheme that also included Peter. They try to convince James to run away with them, but he turns them down and heads to a life raft with Darnell. When Gayle shoots the life raft, James pulls out a gun he had "keistered" and aims it at Gayle. U.S. Marshals suddenly appear, summoned by the ankle monitor that James triggered, having worn it past the county line. Barrows computer provides the evidence needed to clear James. Barrow, Gayle, Alissa, and Barrows men are taken away by the Marshals and James is cleared of all charges. However, he gets arrested for his unlicensed gun. Darnells training helps James through his six-month prison sentence - something that Barrow is unprepared for as he is quickly attacked by inmates when his own lengthy San Quentin sentence begins. James spends his sentence helping the FBI retrieve all the assets that Barrow stole, while guiding Darnells investments so that he and Rita are able to open their own carwash. As Darnell drives James home after his release, James announces his intent to celebrate his freedom with a Wall Street Journal and a forty, which he now considers a perfect Sunday.
Get Hard
2015