Black photographer Chris Washington reluctantly agrees to meet the family of his white girlfriend Rose Armitage. During their drive to the familys countryside estate, they hit a deer and report the incident. The white policeman asks for Chriss identification even though he was not driving, but Rose intervenes and the incident goes unrecorded. At the house, Roses parents, neurosurgeon Dean and hypnotherapist Missy, and her brother Jeremy make discomfiting comments about black people. Chris witnesses strange behavior from the estates black workers, housekeeper Georgina and groundskeeper Walter. Unable to sleep, Chris goes outside for a smoke and sees Walter sprinting through the grounds while Georgina prowls the house. Missy talks Chris into a hypnotherapy session, ostensibly to cure his smoking addiction. In a trance, he recounts the death of his mother in a hit-and-run when he was a child, about which he feels guilty, and sinks into a void Missy calls the "sunken place". He awakens believing he had a nightmare but realizes cigarettes now revolt him. Walter confirms that Chris was in Missys office. Georgina unplugs his phone, draining his battery, though she claims it was an accident. Dozens of wealthy white people arrive for the Armitages annual get-together. They take an interest in Chris, admiring his physique or expressing admiration for black figures such as Tiger Woods. Jim Hudson, a blind art dealer, takes particular interest in Chriss photography skills. Chris meets another black man, Logan King, who acts strangely and is married to a much older white woman. Chris calls his friend, black TSA Agent Rod Williams, about the hypnosis and the strange behavior at the house. Chris tries to inconspicuously photograph Logan with his phone to send to Rod, but his flash goes off; Logan becomes hysterical, yelling at Chris to "get out". The others restrain him and Dean claims Logan had an epileptic seizure. Away from the house, Chris persuades Rose that they should leave, while Dean holds an auction with a photo of Chris, which Jim Hudson wins. Chris sends the photo of Logan to Rod; Rod recognizes Logan as Andre Hayworth, who has been missing for months. Suspecting a conspiracy, Rod goes to the police, but they deride him. While he packs to leave, Chris finds photos of Rose in prior relationships with black men, contradicting her claim that Chris is her first black boyfriend; the collection also includes pictures of Rose with Walter and Georgina. Chris is blocked from leaving the estate by the Armitage family, including Rose. He tries to attack Jeremy, but Missy hypnotizes him into unconsciousness. He awakens strapped to a chair in the basement. A video presentation featuring Roses grandfather Roman explains that the family transplants the brains of white people into black bodies; the consciousness of the host remains in the "sunken place", watching but powerless. Hudson tells Chris he wants his body so he can gain Chriss sight and artistic talents. Rod, now privately investigating Chris disappearance and a possible conspiracy by the Armitages, calls Chris phone multiple times. During one call, Rose answers, saying that Chris left in a taxi and left his phone behind. Rod attempts to record Roses sketchy account of Chris supposed departure as proof of a conspiracy, but Rose realizes this and accuses Rod of wanting to sleep with her. Chris plugs his ears with cotton stuffing pulled from the chair, blocking the hypnosis. When Jeremy comes to collect him for the surgery, Chris bludgeons him and impales Dean on the antlers of a deer mount. After killing Missy and Jeremy, he drives away in Jeremys white sports car but hits Georgina. Remembering his own mothers death, he carries Georgina into the car, but she is possessed by Roses grandmother Marianne; she attacks him and he crashes, killing her. An armed Rose apprehends him with Walter, possessed by Roman. Chris awakens Walter with his phone flash. Walter takes Roses rifle and shoots her and then himself. Rose, wounded, attempts to shoot Chris; Chris begins to strangle her but stops. Rod arrives in a TSA car to Chris rescue and both drive away.
Get Out
2017