Maxwell "Max" Smart, an analyst for the top secret American intelligence agency, CONTROL, yearns to become a field agent like his idol, Agent 23. Despite top scores in the acceptance tests, Max is denied the promotion due to his higher value as an analyst. When CONTROL headquarters is attacked by the terrorist organization KAOS, almost all of CONTROLs agents identities are exposed, leaving only Agent 99 as a viable field operative. Max is also promoted to field agent as Agent 86, but the experienced 99 is reluctant to partner with him because of his incompetence. On the first day of his job, Max receives a Swiss army knife which includes special add-ons like a miniature flamethrower and a crossbow that shoots darts attached to spider web thread. While on a plane, Agent 99 spots a threatening looking man in the back and says she thinks hes an assassin. Max brushes it off as profiling and notices that he has a wad of gum stuck to the bottom of his shoe and attempts to scrape it off using a match. Passengers around him start to yell and panic, thinking he is trying to light his shoe, and that it must be a bomb. He is tackled by an Air Marshall and his hands are put into zip ties. Max requests to use the bathroom, and while inside attempts to break his zip ties using the crossbow on his pocketknife. He does finally break the zip tie, but one of the darts hits the "eject" button and leaves him plummeting towards the earth with no parachute. Agent 99 goes to eject. She sees the dart and that there are still two parachutes there. She realizes what happened and quickly ejects to save Max. She grabs him, but the threatening man follows close behind. He slashes 99s chute with a large knife. 99 does not panic, knowing she has a backup chute. She briefly lets go of Max to slash the mans chute. However, he grabs onto her and Max and prevents her from being able to pull her parachute. She kisses him, and, shocked, he lets go. 99 pulls her parachute, and the man plummets through the roof of a farm. 99 and Max assume he is dead, but 99 is irritated with Maxs incompetence. The two arrive at the mansion of KAOS chief bomb-maker, Ladislas Krstic. Max accidentally inhales a tranquilizer that he meant to shoot at the guards. When he wakes up, he is in entirely new clothes, a disguise chosen by 99. They infiltrate the main office and trace nuclear material to a KAOS nuclear weapons factory disguised as a Moscow bakery. In the bakery, Max meets with KAOS boss Siegfried and his second-in-command, Shtarker, only to learn that a double-agent has compromised their identities. Max manages to escape and destroy the weapons factory, but he and 99 are confronted by the same man that they had assumed dead earlier. All seems lost, but Max manages to persuade Dalip to spare their lives. He does this by talking to Dalip about his crumbling relationship, realizing he knows all about the man after tracking him while he had been working as an analyst. The Chief sends 23 to observe the cleanup of the factory, but KAOS sneaks the weapons out through the Moskva River beforehand, leaving 23 convinced that only a bakery had been destroyed. Realizing that Max was alone during his key discoveries, CONTROL believes Max to be the double-agent. 99, who has been gradually falling in love with Max, is heartbroken but takes Max into custody. Siegfried contacts the U.S. government and threatens to release nuclear weapon detonator codes to hostile countries unless he is paid a ransom of $200 billion. When his threats are not taken seriously, KAOS plans to detonate a nuclear bomb in Los Angeles. While Max is in a CONTROL holding cell, Dalip sends him a coded message via the radio show American Top 40 alerting him to Siegfrieds plan. Max escapes; arrives in Los Angeles to reunite with the Chief, 99, and 23; and convinces them that he is not the double-agent. When his Geiger counter-equipped watch picks up traces of radiation from 23, they realize 23 is the real double-agent. 23 takes 99 hostage and flees in a vehicle. After a chase, Max manages to rescue 99, but in the struggle, the car is set on fire and forced onto railroad tracks. Max kisses 23 to distract him, a trick learned from 99. He and 99 are thrown off the vehicle before it collides with a freight train, killing 23. After analyzing 23s nuclear football, Max realizes that the bomb will be triggered by the final note of Beethovens "Ode to Joy". They rush to the Disney Hall, and Max tackles the elderly conductor just before the final note, saving the President and Los Angeles. Siegfried, despite his plan failing, is satisfied with Dalips performance and promises not to kill his wife in response, but insults her at the same time. In response, Dalip throws Siegfried into a river. Back in CONTROL headquarters, a party is held in Maxs honor, where 99 gives him a puppy. Max is afterwards given honors and gets his dream of becoming a real spy. While leaving, Max attempts to fix the jammed door, much to 99s dismay, and ends up jammed between the sliding doors as a humorous ending shot.
Get Smart (film)
2008