Chili Palmer, a loan shark based in Miami, clashes with another mobster, Ray "Bones" Barboni over a stolen coat. They have several confrontations, one of which leaves Barboni with a broken nose. But after Palmers boss, Momo, dies of a heart attack, he finds himself working for Barboni, whose first order is for Palmer to collect a debt owed by Leo Devoe. Devoe was believed to have been killed in a fatal commercial airliner crash, but had actually gotten off the plane, and failed to re-board. After the plane crash, Devoes wife identified his personal effects, and the airline offered her a check for $300,000. Chili visits her and discovers Leo is still alive, partying in Las Vegas. While in Vegas, Palmer picks up a job from a casino manager to collect a debt from B-movie producer Harry Zimm. Palmer goes to Los Angeles and locates Zimm at the home of actress Karen Flores, breaking into her house. Zimm agrees to pay the money he owes in 90 days. Film fan Palmer then pitches an idea: a thinly veiled story of his own life, including the scam by Leo. Zimm is interested, but he has financial problems: He owes $200,000 to drug dealer Bo Catlett, who also wants to be in the movie business. Palmer says he will help Zimm take care of it. Palmer tracks down Devoe and collects the $300,000 in insurance money. He hides it in an airport locker. Palmer returns to Karens house, where he asks Karen on a date. Karen is the ex-wife of actor Martin Weir, which gives Palmer the idea that Weir should star in his movie. He and Karen go to Weirs home to pitch the story idea, Chili giving the actor tips on how to act like a loan shark. Catlett comes to Zimms office for a progress report about the film he is supposedly financing. Waiting for him there instead is Palmer, who tells Catlett that Zimm has a different project he needs to finish first. Catlett and his sidekick Ronnie proceed to threaten Zimm, saying they want their money back and to get rid of Palmer or else. Zimm makes a call to Barboni in Miami, telling him Chili has recovered the money from Leo Devoe and speaking to him rudely on the phone. Barboni promptly flies to Los Angeles, confronts Zimm in his office, and beats him mercilessly when Zimm does not reveal the location of Chili and the money. Ronnie walks in and Ray shoots him, then puts the gun in Zimms hand. Doris, Zimms girlfriend, whose late husband wrote "Mr. Lovejoy," calls Karen and tells her that Zimm is in the hospital. When he is eventually released, Zimm must wear a neck brace and remains in agonizing pain, even as he endures Weirs arrogant behavior in a brief lunch meeting with Chili and Karen about their movie project. At another restaurant, Zimm claims he doesnt need Chilis money anymore. Catletts bodyguard, Bear, a movie stuntman on the side, is thrown down a flight of stairs by Chili. Desperate for money, Catlett kidnaps Karen and demands the money that Chili has gotten back from Devoe. But after Chili gives him the money, Catlett reneges on their deal. Chili cuts a deal with Bear to double-cross Catlett. On a balcony at Catletts home, where Karen is being held, Bear pretends to give Chili a beating, but its a set-up. In the struggle, Catlett is pushed over a balcony rail that was previously loosened, falling to his death. At his hotel, Barboni confronts Palmer, demanding the money. He finds an airport locker key and assumes the money is hidden in the locker. At the airport, upon opening the locker, a shocked Barboni is confronted by DEA agents. On a Hollywood studio set, a film is being made. Harvey Keitel is playing Barboni and Martin Weir is playing Palmer. Penny Marshall is directing, with Zimm as executive producer, Chili and Karen as co-producers. Bear is a technical consultant. Chili and Karen are arguing with Weirs agent about Weirs appropriateness for another role.
Get Shorty (film)
2005