Parapsychologists Peter Venkman, Raymond Stantz, and Egon Spengler are scientists working for Columbia University. After being called to the New York Public Library to investigate recent paranormal activity, they encounter a full-fledged ghost but she frightens them away. They lose their jobs, so the trio establish the Ghostbusters, a paranormal investigation and elimination service. They develop high-tech equipment to capture ghosts and open their business in a disused, run-down firehouse. In their first outing, Egon warns them never to cross the energy streams of their proton pack weapons, as this could cause a catastrophic explosion, and they capture their first ghost, Slimer, depositing it in a specially built containment unit in the firehouse basement. As paranormal activity increases in New York City, they hire a fourth member, Winston Zeddemore, to cope with demand. The Ghostbusters are retained by cellist Dana Barrett, whose apartment is haunted by a demonic spirit, Zuul, a demigod worshipped as a servant to Gozer the Gozerian, a shape-shifting god of destruction and chaos. Venkman competes with Danas neighbor, accountant Louis Tully, for her affections. As the Ghostbusters investigate, Dana is possessed by Zuul, which declares itself the "Gatekeeper", and Louis by a similar demon, Vinz Clortho, the "Keymaster". Both demons speak of the coming of the destructive Gozer and the release of the imprisoned ghosts. The Ghostbusters take steps to keep the two apart. Walter Peck, a lawyer representing the Environmental Protection Agency, has the Ghostbusters arrested for operating as unlicensed waste handlers and orders their ghost containment system deactivated, causing an explosion that releases the ghosts and Louis/Vinz. The ghosts wreak havoc throughout the city while Louis/Vinz advances toward Dana/Zuuls apartment. Consulting blueprints of Danas apartment building, the Ghostbusters learn that mad doctor and cult leader Ivo Shandor, declaring humanity too sick to deserve existing after World War I, designed the building as a gateway to summon Gozer and bring about the end of the world. The Ghostbusters are released from custody to combat the supernatural crisis. On the apartment building roof, Zuul and Vinz open the gate between dimensions and transform into supernatural hellhounds. Gozer, in the form of a woman, is subdued by the team, disappearing entirely, as her voice echoes that the "destructor" will follow, taking a form chosen by the team; Ray inadvertently recalls a beloved corporate mascot from his childhood —"something that could never, ever possibly destroy us"— and the destructor arrives in the form of a giant Stay Puft Marshmallow Man that attacks the city. The Ghostbusters cross their proton pack energy streams and fire them at Gozers portal; the explosion closes the gate, destroys Stay Puft/Gozer, and frees Dana and Louis. The Ghostbusters are welcomed on the street as heroes.
Ghostbusters
1989