The Maestro (Michael Jackson) lives alone in a creepy-looking mansion on top of a hill, overlooking the town of "Normal Valley", and occasionally entertains the local children with scary magic tricks. One of the children tells his mother, who alerts the Mayor (also Michael Jackson). He in turn organizes the townspeople to go to the Maestros mansion and force him out of town. The children assure the parents that the Maestro has done nothing wrong, and ask that they leave him alone. But the mayor says that hes weird and cannot be in their town. The front gate opens and the townspeople make their way to the front door. They make their way into the house, and once they are all inside, the front door slams shut and locks itself. Two more large doors swing open revealing a large, darkened dance hall. Hesitantly, the townspeople make their way to the dance hall, where they are greeted by Maestro himself. The Mayor angrily confronts him, calling him "strange", "weird", and a "freak", and telling him that hes not welcome in their town. Maestro defends himself, and in response the Mayor threatens him to leave. Maestro replies by scaring the townspeople. The frightened townspeople run for the doors, which Maestro shuts with his magical powers and saying they are his guests. Maestro then introduces his "family" of ghouls who, along with Maestro, perform extended dance routines which alternately impresses and scares the townspeople. After Maestros performance ends, he asks whether they still want him to go. While the townspeople respond "no", the mayor says "Yes". Maestro quietly agrees. He falls, and smashes his hands and face into the floor. His face and body start to crumble into dust on the floor, which is then blown away by the wind. The townspeople are saddened by this, and somewhat sorry to see him go. The mayor however thinks he has come out victorious and heads for the doors. When he opens them, he finds a monstrous-looking Maestro-demon head which terrifies him, and he runs away scared. The townspeople then turn back to the now open front doors to see the Maestro standing there. He asks if they all had a good time, and the townspeople realize they did. They figure he isnt so bad after all and make peace with him. During the credits, backstage footage of Jacksons make-up sessions and shots are revealed.
Ghosts (1997 film)
1997