Ghost Dog sees himself as a retainer of Louie, a local mobster, who saved Ghost Dogs life years earlier. While living as a hitman for the American Mafia, he adheres to the code of the samurai, and interprets and applies the wisdom of the Hagakure. Louie tells Ghost Dog to kill a gangster, Handsome Frank, who is sleeping with the daughter of local mafia boss Vargo. Ghost Dog arrives and kills the gangster, before seeing that the girl is also in the room; he leaves her alive. To avoid being implicated in the murder of a made man, Vargo and his associate Sonny Valerio decide to get rid of Ghost Dog. Louie knows practically nothing about Ghost Dog, the hitman communicates only by homing pigeon. The mobsters start by tracing all the pigeon coops in town. They find Ghost Dogs cabin atop a building and kill his pigeons. Ghost Dog realizes he must kill the mafia or they will kill him and his master. During the day, Ghost Dog frequently visits the park to see his best friend, an ice cream man named Raymond. Ghost Dog does not understand French and Raymond does not understand English but the two seem to understand each other. Ghost Dog also makes friends with a little girl named Pearline, to whom he lends the book Rashomon. Eventually, Ghost Dog attacks Vargos mansion and kills almost everyone he encounters single-handed, sparing only Louie and Vargos daughter. At night, Ghost Dog kills Sonny Valerio in his house. Ghost Dog expects that Louie will attack him (as he feels that Louie must avenge the murder of his boss Vargo). He goes to the park and gives Raymond all his money, helping him to stay in the country. Pearline appears and gives back Rashōmon to Ghost Dog, saying that she liked it. Ghost Dog gives Pearline his copy of Hagakure and encourages her to read it. Though Louie feels some loyalty to Ghost Dog, he finally confronts him at Raymonds ice cream stand with Raymond and Pearline watching. Ghost Dog is unwilling to attack his master and allows Louie to kill him. His last act is to give Louie the copy of Rashōmon and encourage him to read it. Pearline takes Ghost Dogs gun and shoots at Louie but the gun is empty. Ghost Dog dies peacefully with Raymond and Pearline at his side. Later, Pearline reads the Hagakure.
Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai
1999