Set in turn-of-the-20th century Paris, the film opens with Honoré Lachaille (Maurice Chevalier), who is surrounded by members of high society in the Bois de Boulogne. Being a charming old roué, he remarks that in Paris, marriage is not the only option for wealthy young bon vivants like his nephew Gaston (Louis Jourdan), who is bored with life. The one thing Gaston truly enjoys is spending time with Madame Alvarez (Hermione Gingold), whom he calls Mamita, and especially her granddaughter, the precocious, carefree Gilberte, also called Gigi (Leslie Caron). Following the "family tradition", Madame Alvarez sends Gigi to her great aunt Alicia (Isabel Jeans) to be groomed as a courtesan to learn etiquette and charm. To Alicia, love is an art, and a necessary accomplishment for Gigis social and economic future, but Gigi shows disdain for such trivial love that a man and his mistress usually have. Remaining true to her girlish yet charming personality, she finds herself having the most fun when she is with Gaston, whom she regards as an older brother. Like his uncle, Gaston is known as a wealthy womanizer. The whole of Paris watches his every move, and Parisian high society shows unrestrained judgment towards his mistresses and him. Gastons latest mistress attempts to run off with her ice skating instructor. As a response, Gaston publicly humiliates her, resulting in her attempted suicide. After this ordeal, Gaston wishes to retreat to the country, but his uncle insists on his staying in Paris and attending more parties. Gigi makes a wager during a card match with Gaston, suggesting that if he loses, he has to take her grandmother and her to the sea with him when he goes on vacation. Gaston agrees, loses, and they all travel to Trouville. While Gaston and Gigi spend many hours having fun together, Honoré and Madame Alvarez reveal their once-passionate relationship. While other women at the resort are shown holding perfect poise constantly, and giving off an air of boredom and disdain for anything unfamiliar, Gigi is pulling Gaston out of his depressive rut with her carefree, fun attitude. Once Gigi and her grandmother return to Paris, Gaston goes to Monte Carlo for some time. During this time, Gigis aunt and grandmother discuss the possibility of Gigi becoming Gastons mistress, thereby fulfilling their goals for her. Madame Alvarez, though dubious at first, agrees to let Gigi train around the clock to prepare for Gastons return. Gigi accepts this as a necessary evil. When Gaston returns, he is surprised and discomfited when Gigi appears in her new, adult dress. Gaston tells her that she looks like a giraffe, and that he misses her old outfits. He storms out, realises his folly, and quickly rushes back to apologize. He tells her that she looks lovely, and says that he will prove it to her by taking her to tea at the Reservoir. Gigis grandmother refuses and tells Gaston that this may ruin her reputation to be seen unchaperoned with Gaston before her reputation has even begun. Gaston, angered, storms out once again. As he walks, he starts to reflect about Gigi. He stops and suddenly realizes that she has become a woman whose charms, wit, and personality have sent his head spinning. He soon comes to the conclusion that he has developed a romantic desire for Gigi. Although he has doubts due to their enormous age difference, he also realizes that he loves her even more than he thought (unheard of between a man and a mistress) and he wants to be with her. He proposes an arrangement to Madame Alvarez and Aunt Alicia for Gigi to become his mistress. They are overjoyed. Gigi, wisely, is not. Gaston talks to Gigi and she tells him that she is not the type of girl who wants publicity and to be dumped by him one day, then having to become someone else’s mistress. Gigi wants their relationship to remain platonic, but when Gaston accidentally reveals that he loves Gigi, she bursts into tears, upset that he would want to expose her to the uncertainty of being his mistress if he actually loves her. Gaston leaves angered. He later runs into Honoré, who declares that Gigis family has always been a bit odd. Gigi later sends Gaston a message to come and talk to her, and when he arrives she admits that she would rather be miserable with him than without him. She agrees to accompany him in public. He buys an expensive piece of jewelry for her and, later, when he arrives for their date, he finds Gigi dressed in her finery and is entranced by her beauty. They go to Maxims restaurant, where Gigi acts the role of a courtesan perfectly. Gaston is uncomfortable with her knowledge of the other courtesans, and, after giving her the gift, he get even more concerned for Gigi because of the unrelenting attention and judgment of the other patrons. Honoré then delivers a crushing blow when he congratulates Gaston on his new courtesan, and makes degrading remarks towards Gigi. Gaston, too much in love with Gigi to give her this appalling life of uncertainty and judgment, makes her leave without a word, doesnt speak to her, and drags her up the stairs to her apartment after bringing her home crying. He walks away, but soon stops a little way down the street and realizes that his love for her is too strong. He goes back to her apartment and proposes marriage. The final sequence reverts to Honoré Lachaille, proudly pointing out Gaston and Gigi getting into and riding in their carriage in the Bois de Boulogne. The couple is elegant, beautiful, and happily married.
Gigi (1958 film)
1958