Larry Gigli (Ben Affleck) is a low-ranking Los Angeles mobster who isnt nearly as tough as he likes to act. Louis (Lenny Venito), a higher-ranking member of Giglis organization, commands Gigli to kidnap the mentally challenged younger brother of a powerful federal prosecutor to use as a bargaining chip to save New York-based mob boss Starkman (Al Pacino) from prison. Gigli successfully convinces the young man, Brian (Justin Bartha), to go off with him by promising to take him "to the Baywatch", apparently a reference to the television show of that name, which seems to be Brians singular obsession. Louis does not trust Gigli to get the job done right, so he hires a woman calling herself Ricki (Jennifer Lopez) to take charge. Gigli is attracted to Ricki, but he resents both Louis lack of faith in him and having to take orders from a woman. He is also frustrated by Brians insistence on going to "the Baywatch" and by the fact that Ricki is gay. A suspicious detective (Christopher Walken) comes to the apartment to question Gigli in reference to Brians disappearance. Gigli is further annoyed when his mother (Lainie Kazan) takes an immediate liking to Ricki and when the two women team up to needle him. The events take a darker turn when Gigli and Ricki receive orders to cut off Brians thumb, something that neither wants to do. Worse, Rickis ex-girlfriend, Robin (Missy Crider), shows up at Giglis apartment, accusing Ricki of changing sexual orientation and attempting suicide by slitting her wrists and is rushed to the hospital, where she thankfully survives. While there, Gigli sneaks into the morgue and cuts off a corpses thumb, which he sends to the prosecutor as Brians thumb. Gigli and Ricki go back to Giglis apartment, where Gigli confesses his love and the two sleep together. They are summoned to meet with the mobs boss. Starkman reveals that he did not approve of the plan to kidnap a federal prosecutors brother or the order to cut off Brians thumb. He nevertheless rages at them because the thumb they sent didnt match Brians fingerprint, and therefore not only failed to increase pressure on the prosecutor but even undermined the organizations credibility. Starkman then kills Louis, presumably in retaliation for the kidnapping and associated scrutiny by law enforcement. Starkman is about to kill Ricki and Gigli as well, but Ricki talks him out of it by pointing out that only they know where Brian is and only they can silence Brian and prevent him from revealing the involvement of Starkmans organization in the kidnapping or even accusing Starkman of having been personally involved. They leave Starkmans, decide to leave the mob, and discuss taking Brian back to where they found him. On the way, they discover Baywatch (or a similarly themed show or film) shooting an episode on the beach. Brian begs to be let off there and finally they consent. Gigli convinces Ricki to take his car to escape to parts unknown; but at the last minute, Ricki returns to pick up Gigli, and they leave town together.
Gigli
2003