When Throckmorton P. Gildersleeve is selected to serve on a jury, he is thrilled at the prospect of being able to serve his fellow citizens. The trial is of Louie, a local gangster, who has been charged with burglary. Louies henchman fear that their boss faces conviction, so they decide to pick one of the jurors to influence the vote for acquittal. They pick Gildersleeve, and send him an anonymous note offering him $1000 ($14,000 today). The note arrives the morning Gildersleeve is due at court, and he shoves it into the pocket of a suit without looking at it. After he leaves for the court, his niece, Margie Forrester, sends the suit to the cleaners. At the cleaners the owner of the store, George Peabody, finds the note and reads it. He returns the note to Margie, not letting her know that he has read it, but intimating that he knows its contents. After the trial, Gildersleeve is the lone holdout for acquittal. Hearing that the jury cannot reach a verdict, Margie is afraid that her uncle has agreed to the bribe. She attempts to see him at the courthouse, but failing that she maneuvers the judge into allowing the jury to retire to their house for the night, since they are sequestered and need a place to stay. Peabody blackmails Margie into going to a dance with him that night, standing up her boyfriend Jimmy, and threatens to disclose the contents of the note if she doesnt. While at the dance, Gildersleeve convinces his fellow jurors to acquit. The next day, believing that Gildersleeve has voted for acquittal because of the bribe, Louie has his henchmen pay the $1000, which he steals from the judges safe. Gildersleeve believes the money is a donation for the USO club of which he is chairman. He takes the money to the judges house to put in his safe. When he is shown Louies note, he realizes the true nature of the funds and attempts to steal them back from the judges safe. During the attempt he is taken prisoner by Louie and his henchmen, using a police car they have stolen. They intend to take him to the country and kill him. As they drive, Gildersleeve unobtrusively turns on the police radio, broadcasting the cars conversation. As the gangsters discuss what happened, they provide enough evidence to clear Gildersleeve of any wrongdoing. Once that happens, Gildersleeve forces the car off the road, crashing it. The thieves are captured and Gildersleeve is exonerated.
Gildersleeve's Bad Day
1943