June Delaney belongs to the upper circles of New York Citys social life. When she learns that her private money has been impounded by the British government, since most of her investments are made by her father in England before the outbreak of World War II, she is very annoyed. To make the most of what she got and continue living as before she is forced to rent out her upscale apartment. She advertises in a newspaper, and gets a response from a prospective tenant, a Venezuelan playboy and sole heir to an American rubber industry, Pedro Sullivan. Pedro is going to the United States to secure a bank loan for his fathers business, and needs a place to stay during the negotiations. Despite the huge cost of renting the fancy apartment, he cannot resist its beauty and the charms of its owner June. When Pedro arrives to his new temporary home, June is dressed in an apron, and Pedro mistakes her for a servant. June does not take him out of his misconception, but continues to play along, telling him that Miss Delaney is away traveling. Since June knows nothing of the servant role, Pedro is soon very disappointed with her services. Pedro also meets resistance in the negotiations with the largest tire manufacturer in the United States, Ambrose Murdock Flint, who insists on investing his money in a rubber substitute instead of the real rubber Pedro has to offer. When Pedro talks to the companys New York representative, Mr. Cordoba, the latter misunderstands him and thinks he has been granted the loan by Flint. June and Pedro go to the same club that night, and June tries to evade Pedro when she discovers him. Her real name is disclosed to Pedro though by an employee, and since June is oblivious of this, she lets Pedro take her to another club, where they start to fall in love with each other. Mr. Cordoba learns that Pedro never got the loan and chastises him relentlessly. Pedro is ordered back to Venezuela. By one of Junes jealous friends, he is led to believe that it was June that told Cordoba about the loan, to sabotage the deal. June on the other hand, is trying to use her charms to convince Flint investing in property she can offer him, to help Pedro get the money. A misunderstanding occurs as Pedro believes June is competing with him for Flints money. June and Pedro become enemies, but make up at one of Junes friends charity events. At the event, June manages to make Pedro and Flint meet again, and with Junes help they finally reach an agreement and Pedro gets the loan. June and Pedro become a romantic couple, but Pedro accidentally manages to flatten Flints car tire with a gun.
Girl Trouble (1942 film)
1942