Around Christmas, Ronna Martin (Sarah Polley), working overtime at her supermarket job to avoid being evicted, is approached at work by Adam (Scott Wolf) and Zack (Jay Mohr), who ask if they can buy 20 hits of ecstasy; they were originally hoping to buy from her absent co worker, Simon Baines (Desmond Askew). After work, Ronna approaches Simons dealer, Todd Gaines (Timothy Olyphant), for the drugs but, as she is unable to pay the full amount, leaves her friend and other co worker, Claire Montgomery (Katie Holmes), with Todd as collateral. Before she can give Adam and Zack the drugs, Ronna grows suspicious of Burke (William Fichtner), a stranger with the two who presses her for the ecstasy. In a panic, she flushes the drugs down the toilet and leaves. Ronna then steals over the counter pills to replace the ecstasy she disposed of, helped by her friend and another co worker, Manny (Nathan Bexton), who swallowed two of the ecstasy pills without knowing their strength. Ronna gives 20 of the fake pills to Todd, and she, Claire, and Manny make their way to a rave, where she sells the pills she stole as ecstasy. Todd soon discovers the pills are fake and pursues Ronna, discovering her at the rave. Ronna flees with Manny, but he is overcome by the drugs. Ronna leaves him in an alley and promises to return with her car, but Todd confronts her with a gun in the parking lot. Before he can shoot Ronna, she is hit by a car that speeds away. The story restarts from the perspective of Simon, who is on a trip to Las Vegas with Marcus (Taye Diggs), Tiny (Breckin Meyer), and Singh (James Duval). Tiny and Singh soon get food poisoning, leaving Simon and Marcus to their own devices. Simon crashes a wedding and has sex with two of the bridesmaids before their hotel room accidentally catches fire. Simon and Marcus leave the hotel, stealing a car from someone who thinks Marcus is a parking attendant. The pair goes to a strip club, where Simon orders a private lap dance for them using Todds loaned credit card, but he enrages the bouncer, Victor Jr., by groping one of the strippers. Simon shoots Victor Jr. with a gun that he found in the stolen car, and he and Marcus flee to the hotel, rousing Tiny and Singh. The four barely escape the bouncer and his father, Victor Sr. (J. E. Freeman), but Victor Sr. traces Todds address from the credit card Simon left at the strip club. The story then changes perspective to Adam and Zack, actors in a daytime soap opera who are secretly in a relationship. Having been busted for drug possession, they are forced to work with Burke, a police detective, to entrap their dealer. Adam is fitted with a wire. When they cannot find their usual dealer, Simon, the two convince Ronna to come up with the drugs. When Ronna arrives later to make the deal, Zack has a change of heart and secretly warns her away, leading her to dispose of the drugs in the bathroom. After the unsuccessful bust, Burke invites Adam and Zack to Christmas dinner, where they observe strange behavior from Burke and his wife, Irene. Burke and Irene finally pitch an Amway-type company to the two over dinner, but the pair make excuses and leave. Idly discussing their mutual infidelities, Adam and Zack realize they both cheated with the same person, Jimmy. They discover he is at a rave and confront him there, cutting his long hair. While leaving the rave, they accidentally run over Ronna in the parking lot, panicking and driving away when they see Todd with a gun. Zack tries to reassure Adam that, even if Ronna had survived being run over, Todd would have shot her. Adam then discovers to his horror that he is still wearing his wire. Fearing they have been recorded and will be discovered, the two return to the accident scene to remove Ronnas body, but discover she is still alive. They prop her up on a car, setting off its alarm, and watch from a distance as other partygoers call for an ambulance. As morning breaks, Claire goes to a restaurant where she hopes to meet up with Ronna and Manny, but sees Todd instead. The two end up talking and going back to Todds apartment building. While making out on the stairs, they are confronted by Victor Jr. and Sr. Todd offers Simons address just as Simon arrives, having hoped to hide for a few days. There is a scuffle but it is stopped by Claire, who refuses to witness a murder. As a form of "justice," Simon agrees to be shot in the arm by Victor Jr. as Claire leaves in disgust. Meanwhile, Ronna wakes up in a hospital and hobbles back to the supermarket, where Claire is also working. Realizing she left Manny at the rave, Ronna returns with Claire to the venue to find Manny pale and shaken in an alley. The three go to Ronnas car, where Ronna muses that she can now pay her rent. Manny asks, to the incredulity of Ronna and Claire, what their plans are for New Years.
Go (1999 film)
1999