Years after an initial attack of Tokyo in 1954, Godzilla is entrapped under ice in Antarctica after a battle with the original Gotengo. In later years, environmental disasters cause the appearance of giant monsters and superhumans, dubbed "mutants", who are then recruited into the Earth Defense Force (EDF) to battle the monsters. An upgraded Gotengo, commanded by Captain Gordon, battles and destroys Manda, but the ship is wrecked in the process and its captain Douglas Gordon is suspended from the EDF. Mutant soldier Shinichi Ozaki is tasked with guarding a U.N. biologist, Dr. Miyuki Otonashi, who is sent to study a mummified monster. They are teleported to Infant Island where they encounter the Shobijin, fairies of Mothra, who reveal the mummified monster as Gigan, an alien cyborg sent to destroy the Earth who was ultimately defeated by Mothra. They warn that a battle between good and evil will happen soon and that Ozaki must choose a side. Giant monsters begin attacking several major cities. The EDF engage the creatures, who mysteriously vanish at the same moment when an alien mothership appears over Tokyo. The aliens, named Xiliens, warn that an incoming planet called "Gorath" will soon impact the Earth. A peace pact is signed between Earth and the Xiliens. Meanwhile, Minilla, Godzillas son, is found in the forest by a boy and his grandfather. Distrusting the Xiliens, Ozaki, Miyuki, and her sister, Anna discover that Gorath they saw is actually a hologram and that the aliens have replaced several members of the EDF with duplicates. After their kind is exposed, killing his superior to assume command, the Xilien Controller X reveals their plans to use humans as a food source while taking control of all the mutants save Ozaki. X also has the monsters placed under his control and awakens Gigan to have them to wipe out the EDF. The group escapes with Gigan pursuing them, Gordon convincing them to travel to Antarctica to release Godzilla who easily destroys Gigan. The Gotengo then guides Godzilla into battle with the other monsters and returns to Tokyo to engage the Xiliens. After penetrating the mothership, the group is captured and brought before X as he has summoned Gorath to Earth. Though Godzilla destroys Gorath just before it crashes, it unleashes Monster X and the two monsters battle. An upgraded Gigan aids Monster X, but is intercepted by Mothra, who is gravely wounded while managing to destroy the cyborg. In the Xilien ship, as a fight breaks out while unable to take control of the human due to the Shobijins blessing, X reveals that both he and Ozaki are superior beings known are "Keizers". X is fatally wounded, but he triggers the ships self-destruct as the group fall back to the Gotengo moments before the mothership explodes. Godzilla and Monster X continue their battle as the latter transforms into its true form, Keizer Ghidorah. Keizer Ghidorah initially gets the upper-hand but Godzilla emerges victorious in the end. Minilla shows up at the scene and convinces Godzilla not to destroy the Gotengo. The survivors watch Godzilla and Minilla return to the ocean.
Godzilla: Final Wars
2004