Kip Raines (Giovanni Ribisi), an aspiring car thief in Los Angeles, is working with his gang to steal fifty expensive cars for Raymond Calitri (Christopher Eccleston), a British gangster, via Calitris associate, Atley (Will Patton). On the last heist, their antics bring attention by the police, and they narrowly avoid capture, though are forced to abandon the warehouse and the bulk of cars they stole. Detectives Castleback (Delroy Lindo) and Drycoff (Timothy Olyphant) seize the cars and begin an investigation. Calitri kidnaps Kip and threatens to kill him for failing the job. Atley, sympathetic to Kips plight, visit Kips older brother, Randall "Memphis" Raines (Nicolas Cage), a former car thief having gone straight years before, and explains the situation. Memphis meets with Calitri to negotiate Kips release, but in exchange, Calitri forces Memphis to agree to steal the fifty cars within 72 hours or else he will kill Kip. Memphis visits his mentor Otto Halliwell (Robert Duvall) and they assemble a crew, including Donny Astricky (Chi McBride), Sphynx (Vinnie Jones), and Sara "Sway" Wayland (Angelina Jolie), Memphis old flame. Kip and his crew also offer to help. Knowing the police will be watchful for the thefts, Memphis suggests to steal all the cars in a twelve-hour period. The group starts to identify the target cars with Memphis giving each a womans name. He plans on stealing a 1967 Ford Shelby GT500, dubbed "Eleanor", last, as he considers the car a curse, with all previous attempts to steal one gone awry. As they scout the car locations, Memphis is approached by Castleback and Drycoff. While they cannot charge him with any crime, they warn him that they are watching his activities closely. Later, the detectives discover that some of the previous heists were done by ordering electric keys for certain vehicles, and they set up stakeouts to watch those cars. On the night of the heists, most of the initial thefts go without problems, with the gang members delivering the cars to Calitris dock. When Memphis and others prepare to steal those with the electric keys, he gets a sense of something amiss, and has the gang abandon those; instead, they successfully scheme a way to obtain those cars from the police impound. Castleback, furious that he could not catch Memphis in the act, returns to the seized warehouse to search for any more clues. They discover pieces of a blacklight lamp, and shortly discover the list of fifty cars written in ultraviolet-sensitive paint on the wall. Aware they cannot watch all those cars, Castleback focuses on the Shelby, knowing Memphis penchant for this car, and its rarity. They quickly locate the few Shelbys in the city. Just as Memphis is about to take the Shelby, the detectives arrive. Memphis leads them and their police escort on a dangerous chase through the city, eventually ditching them near the docks. He delivers the damaged car to Calitri, who refuses it since Memphis was twelve minutes late, and has the Shelby crushed. Memphis again pleads for Calitris mercy as he prepares to kill Memphis instead with a gun, but Kip and a repentant Atley overcome their guards, and force Calitri to flee into his dockside warehouse; Memphis gives chase just as Castleback and Drycoff arrive. Memphis and Calitri engage in a game of cat-and-mouse, the noise drawing the detectives inside. Just as Calitri has Memphis cornered, Castleback appears, confusing Calitri and giving Memphis the opportunity to rush him and push him over a railing to his death. Memphis explains the situation to Castleback and where they can find the other stolen cars, and Castleback reluctantly lets Memphis and Kip go. The gang celebrates with a barbecue, and as a way of showing thanks, Kip has sold off his motorcycle to buy Memphis the partially-wrecked, but still drive-able, Shelby.
Gone in 60 Seconds (2000 film)
2000