Jenny Swanson (Blondell) is a waitress in a small college town whose dream is to go to Paris by any means necessary. She confides her plan for a little gold-digging and blackmail to Ronald "Ronnie" Brooke (Douglas), a professor on exchange from England. Brooke tries to dissuade her, telling her that "good girls go to Paris, too". Her first attempt ends badly. Although she attracts rich Ted Dayton Jr., his father refuses to pay her off, insisting she back up her claim that she has a written marriage proposal. When she does not produce it, the father threatens her with the police, unless she agrees to leave town and never come back. She tells Brooke she had the letter in her purse, but at the last moment, could not bring herself to take it out. Brooke advises her to go home, then reveals that he is getting married in New York City and returning to England. Jenny starts to buy a ticket home, but then decides to go to New York instead. At the train station, she runs into Brooke and his fiancées brother, Tom Brand (Alan Curtis). She and Tom become acquainted on the train. He likes her very much, even after she tells him all about her blackmail attempt. In New York City, he takes her to nightclub after nightclub. At one, she encounters Toms mother Caroline, out with her boyfriend Paul Kingston. At another, she spots Sylvia Brand (Joan Perry), Brookes fiancée, dancing with medical student Dennis Jeffers, whom Sylvia has known since childhood. Jenny eavesdrops and learns that Sylvia is in love with Dennis, but fears being disinherited by her very wealthy grandfather Olaf if they married (Dennis is the son of the family butler). She also discovers that Tom owes $5000 in gambling debts to Mr. Schultz. After Jenny brings a drunk Tom home very late at night, she encounters Caroline sneaking in. They wake up an irritable, ailing Olaf, so Caroline introduces her as Sylvias friend from college. Jenny prescribes traditional Swedish remedies, which soon make Olaf much pleasanter. When Brooke shows up the next morning, he is flabbergasted to find she is a houseguest ... and one of Sylvias bridesmaids. She soon becomes a great favorite of Olafs. He would be very pleased to have Tom marry her. Crises abound. First, Schultz comes for his money. Jenny keeps him from seeing Olaf, who knows nothing about Toms debt, and promises to pay him tomorrow. Next, Dennis injures a man while driving; Sylvia is a passenger and gives her name as Jenny Swanson to avoid scandal. She asks Jenny to play along, so Jenny demands $5000 to do it. That takes care of Toms IOUs. When she learns that Paul and Caroline plan to elope, Jenny arranges it so that Caroline learns the truth: that Paul is only after her wealth. Then, Olaf announces Tom and Jennys engagement at his party. Finally, an attorney representing the injured man barges in to speak to Olaf, followed a little later by the Daytons, who have their own quarrel with Olaf. Olaf gathers his family together to figure out what is going on. Eventually, everything is straightened out: Caroline gets Dennis, and Brooke gets Jenny.
Good Girls Go to Paris
1939