On the first day of summer, slacker high school student Dexter Reed takes his mothers car on a joyride while she is on a business trip and accidentally crashes into and damages the car of his teacher, Mr. Wheat. Dexter is in danger of going to jail, as he does not have a drivers license or insurance. But Mr. Wheat agrees to let Dexter pay for the damages to both cars in exchange for not calling the police on Dexter. With the damages estimated at $1,900, Dexter is forced to get a summer job. After being dismissed from the new, soon-to-open Mondo Burger for clashing with and insulting the owner/manager, Kurt Bozwell, he ends up finding employment at Good Burger where he meets and reluctantly befriends dimwitted Ed and a host of other colorful employees. Initially, neither of them are aware that it was Ed who inadvertently caused Dexters car accident; Ed had been on his way to make a delivery, and skated in front of Dexter, causing him to swerve out of control and crash into Mr. Wheat. The survival of the smaller Good Burger is threatened by the grand opening of Mondo Burger, with its fancy decor and oversized burgers, but Good Burger is saved by Eds new secret sauce. Upon realizing that Ed caused his car accident, and learning from Mr. Wheat that the true damages from the accident exceed the original $1,900 estimate (now $2,500), Dexter takes advantage of Ed to make money off the secret sauce in order to pay off his debt sooner. Ed signs a contract that gives Dexter 80% of his profits. Eds sauce vastly improves Good Burgers sales and draws the attention of Kurt Bozwell, who wants it for Mondo Burger. Kurt fails at luring Ed to Mondo Burger at a higher wage, and sends Roxanne, a beautiful employee, to seduce the sauce recipe from Ed; this ends with Roxanne being repeatedly injured by Eds clumsiness and ultimately quitting her job. Later on, when they notice a dogs refusal to eat a discarded Mondo Burger in favor of a Good Burger, Ed and Dexter become suspicious and decide to investigate. Disguised as fashionable women, the two infiltrate Mondo Burgers kitchen and discover that their burgers are being artificially enhanced with Triampathol, an illegal chemical. Kurt discovers them, and calls an acquaintance named Wade, who has them committed to an asylum called Demented Hills so they cant tell the public. Threatened by the success of Eds sauce, Kurt and his men break into Good Burger after hours and taint Eds secret sauce with shark poison, but are confronted by Otis, an elderly Good Burger employee who was sleeping on the premises, leading Kurt to commit Otis to Demented Hills as well. After informing Ed and Dexter about Kurts scheme, the three of them manage to escape Demented Hills and steal an ice cream truck to drive themselves back to Good Burger, arriving just in time to prevent anyone from eating the poisoned sauce. Ed and Dexter then break into Mondo Burger to expose their chemically induced burgers to the police. Dexter creates a diversion, during which Ed tries to take a can of Triampathol, but clumsily knocks one into the meat grinder. Inspired, Ed pours nearly the entire supply into the grinder. Meanwhile, Kurt has captured Dexter, when suddenly Ed arrives bearing an empty can. Kurt mocks Eds presumed foolishness, whereupon Ed snidely comments that the can wasnt empty when he found it. At that moment, chaos ensues in the Mondo Burger building, as the burgers begin exploding due to overuse of Triampathol. In the aftermath, Kurt is arrested for using the illegal substance and Mondo Burger is destroyed, with a large, artificial burger destroying Mr. Wheats newly repaired car as well. Dexter also tears up the contract he formed with Ed and tells him that he gets to keep all the profits from his sauce. Ed and Dexter then walk back to Good Burger where they are both praised by the other employees as heroes for saving the restaurant.
Good Burger
1997