The film begins during WWII in 1941, with Alan Alexander Milne – nicknamed "Blue" by his friends and family – and his wife Daphne receiving a distressing telegram at their home. It then changes time frame to 1916 during WWI with Blue fighting in the Battle of the Somme. He resumes his life with his wife, Daphne, in England while suffering shell shock with occasional flashbacks to his battle experiences and having a child with Daphne. She was hoping for a girl and is disappointed to instead have a son, whom they name Christopher Robin Milne but call "Billy Moon" after he mispronounces his last name. They hire a nanny, Olive, whom Billy calls "Nou". Blue is having difficulty resuming his writing – he wants to draft a compelling treatise against the war – and relocates the family to a house in the country with wooded acreage. Daphne resents the move and returns to London for a few weeks. During that period, Nou goes to care for her dying mother and the cook takes some time off, leaving Blue and Billy to fend for themselves. Reluctantly at first, Blue takes Billy along on walks in the woods and begins making up stories about the boys adventures with the stuffed animals the parents have bought for him along the way. Blue invites his illustrator friend Ernest to join them at the house, and together they begin to develop the Winnie-the-Pooh books. Daphne returns to the house after Blue sends her a poem "Vespers", that she has published in Vanity Fair. Nou returns following her mothers death. After the Winnie-the-Pooh books become a success, Daphne manages their newfound celebrity. As Christopher Robin, Billy makes frequent public appearances which he finds confusing and frustrating. After Billy tells his parents Nou has a beau, Alfred, she becomes angry with them, resigns, and admonishes Blue and Daphne for what they are putting Billy through. Blue resolves to stop writing about the boy and his imaginary friends. Blue ends Billys publicity activities and enrolls him at a boarding school. "Christopher Robin" is bullied at the school and emerges bitter toward his father. When WWII breaks out, Billy is initially declared unfit for the draft, but he demands that his well-connected father – despite being horrified by war and the prospect of his son experiencing what he did – convince the army to accept him regardless. Billy leaves for service, turning his back on his father and disowning the books and the money from them. The opening scene is replayed, this time explaining that Billy has been reported missing and is presumed dead – news his parents pass along to Nou. However, Billy has survived and arrives at the country house without warning, leading to awkward but tearful reunions with his parents and Nou. Blue and Billy have a reconciliation of sorts, and they are seen walking in the woods as a young child and younger man.
Goodbye Christopher Robin
2017