The film takes place on a college campus in the Northeastern United States. Derrick Webb (James Marsden), Cathy Jones (Lena Headey), and Travis (Norman Reedus) are students as well as roommates. They all take a Communications class with Professor Goodwin (Eric Bogosian), in which the subject of gossip is brought up. For their final project, the three students decide to start a rumor and track and see the results. One night while at a nightclub, they run into Naomi Preston (Kate Hudson) and her boyfriend Beau Edson (Joshua Jackson). It is common knowledge through the campus that Naomi is saving her virginity for marriage. Jones (as Cathy is called throughout the movie) in particular has a problem with Naomis wealth and sense of entitlement. Furthermore, Naomi seems to have started a rumor about Jones having sex with Professor Goodwin. While at the party, Derrick meets a girl and brings her upstairs. At this point the girl becomes ill; Derrick then notices Beau and Naomi in the adjacent room kissing. Beau attempts to have sex with Naomi but is rejected. Derrick, Jones, and Travis proceed to begin a rumor that Naomi and Beau had sex. Naomi finds out pretty soon about the rumor, but she denies it to her friends and Naomi becomes convinced she was raped by Beau, under the encouragement of her friends, she reports it to the police. As a result, Beau gets kicked off campus. Its eventually revealed that Derrick and Naomi came from the same home town and they were a couple in high school, much like Beau, Naomi refused Derrick and Derrick raped Naomi. Derrick denied the allegation and said Naomi only made it up so her father wouldnt be upset with her. Derrick wasnt very popular in school after the allegation so he moved after graduation and intentionally wanted to spread a rumor about Naomi to get her back. Beau finds out about this, and the two fight each other. Derrick manages to manipulate Beau into thinking theyre both victims of Naomis lies. Derrick goes to Naomis dorm room to confront her, but Naomi attacks him and Derrick leaves. The next day, Naomi is pronounced dead and because of Derrick and Naomis past (plus the new marks on Derricks face,) the campus accuses Derrick of killing her. Investigators come to Derricks apartment to search for clues and they have intense suspicions that Derricks responsible. Under the overwhelming psychological pressure, Derrick admits to raping Naomi to Travis. The investigation was proven to be a setup by Jones, Travis, and their professor. To Derricks surprise, Naomi was revealed to be alive after he confessed.
Gossip (2000 American film)
2000