Automobile engineer Ed Browne (Sonny Tufts) comes to Washington to appear in front of the War Construction Board. His mission is to supervise the building of bomber aircraft for the war. But when he arrives at the crowded hotel he is supposed to stay at, there are no rooms available. A friendly clerk at the hotel recognizes him from the paper and offers him room 2A. Ed is unaware that the same room is reserved by Elizabeth "Smokey" Allard (Olivia de Havilland), for her friend May (Anne Shirley) who is getting married to an army sergeant, Joe Bates (James Dunn), that very night. The wedding takes place in the hotel lobby, but the groom has lost his ring, and Smokey borrows one from Ed, which leads him to believe that Smokey is the woman getting married. A series of unfortunate events that night leads to Joe being arrested by M.P.s, and he leaves a borrowed motorcycle behind in the hands of Smokey. Smokey tries to find someone who can return the bike, and Ed happens to pass by on his way to the War Construction Board. When Smokey tells him she works at the board, he agrees to drive her there. It turns out Ed is Smokeys new boss. He learns that she is dating a man named Dana McGuire (Jess Barker), who is an adviser to Senator MacVickers (Harry Davenport). Dana soon proves to be too egoistical and ambitious for Smokeys taste. When Ed announces his plan to make the aircraft factories more effective, producing double the amount of bombers each year, Smokey warns him not to stray too far off government recommendations. He ignores her warning, and goes ahead with his efficiency plan. When six months have passed, Ed has reached his goal, but he has also made enemies. One of them is C. L. Harvester (Paul Stanton), who has become a thorn in his side because of the way Ed has ignored government procedures, and cutting into Harvesters business earnings. The two men become bitter enemies. Harvester soon teams up with Dana, the senator, and powerful Washington socialite Adele Wright (Agnes Moorehead), threatening Ed with a Senate investigation. Ed has enough trouble with personal issues, realizing that he has fallen for Smokey, while she has already received a proposed from Dana. Smokey, however, by burning the information Harvester has brought to Dana, saves Eds career. When her friend May sees this, she claims that Smokey has fallen in love with Ed. The two women then are recruited by the government to expose Count Bodinski (George Givot) as a spy. The mission is successful, with the files that Ed was suspected of stealing being returned to Dana the following day by Smokey. She also testifies on Eds behalf at the hearing. Ed is off the hook, and follows Smokey home to propose to her.
Government Girl
1944