Stanley Phillips is a middle-aged Army veteran caring for his two daughters, 12-year-old Heidi and 8-year-old Dawn, while his wife, Grace, serves in Iraq. One afternoon, two Army officers visit his home and inform him that Grace has been killed in combat. In shock, Stanley dreads having to tell his daughters of their mothers death. When they arrive home from school, he takes them out to dinner and plans to tell them afterward. Unable to, he instead decides to take them to Enchanted Gardens, a Florida theme park that the girls have been wanting to visit. That evening, he calls his home to hear Graces voice on their answering machine. The following morning, they arrive at Stanleys mothers house, who is out. Instead they find Stanleys younger brother, John. Stanley encourages the three to go out to lunch. During their absence, he finally breaks down and mourns Grace. Upon returning, John receives a call from a family friend expressing their condolences for Graces death. John angrily confronts Stanley, demanding to know why he hasnt told the girls. Stanley says he will eventually. The trio leave and later that day, stay at a motel. While Stanley is out of the room, Heidi calls her school to inform them that she and Dawn will be out for a few days. She notices her principal, who informs her that her teacher has taken maternity leave, is unusually sympathetic. The following afternoon at a gas station, Stanley calls their answering machine again, leaving a message saying he wished itd been him thatd been deployed instead of Grace. Heidi asks who he was speaking to and grows suspicious after Stanley tells her he was talking to her teacher at the school. That evening, the three arrive at Enchanted Gardens. At their hotel, Heidi calls home and hears Stanleys message to Grace, growing even more suspicious. The next day, the three spend their time at the park, having the most fun since Grace departed for Iraq. Stanley is reluctant to leave as he knows he will soon have to tell them of Graces death. He takes the girls to a nearby beach and finally informs them that Grace has died. The three embrace and mourn her as the sun sets. Heidi writes a eulogy and reads it aloud at Graces funeral. The films final scene is of Stanley, Heidi and Dawn at her grave.
Grace Is Gone (film)
2007