The story follows the fate of four Formula One drivers through a fictionalized version of the 1966 Formula One season: Jean-Pierre Sarti (Ferrari) – A Frenchman who has been world champion twice, he is nearing the end of his career and feeling increasingly cynical about racing itself. Pete Aron (formerly with Ferrari and BRM) – An American attempting to repeat past successes and overcome his reputation as a reckless, second-tier driver, he signs with the newcomer Yamura Motors. Scott Stoddard (BRM) – A British driver recuperating from a bad crash that left him hospitalized, he becomes dogged by recurrent pains while dealing as well with the emotional turmoil of his rocky marriage. Nino Barlini (Ferrari) – A charismatic yet arrogant Italian racer, hes Ferraris No. 2 driver, being a promising rookie and former world motorcycle champion. Subplots in the film revolve around the women who try to live with or love the racers with dangerous lifestyles. The married Sarti begins an affair with an American magazine writer, Louise Frederickson, who initially has little interest in motorsports. Aron has a brief romance with Stoddards unhappy wife Pat while Stoddard deals with living in the shadow of his familys history, being unsure if he can live up to the prestigious racing legacy of his late brother. The story concludes with one last race, its winner becoming world champion. Sartis wife, Monique, shows up just before it begins, coming face-to-face with Louise and telling Sarti she will never grant him a divorce even as Sarti wishes to end their unhappy union. Sartis car has technical difficulties at the races start, with the other drivers facing a close contest for first. Sarti is then suddenly killed in a spectacular crash. His racing partner, Barlini, is flagged off the course by Ferraris team leader, Manetta, resulting in a tight race between Aron and Stoddard to the finish line, Aron getting the checkered flag. While a jubilant Aron magnanimously invites Stoddard to the winners platform to join him, the shock of Sartis death takes its toll on the celebration. The film ends with Aron, alone, walking along the circuit of the final racetrack.
Grand Prix (1966 film)
1966