In the summer of 1958, Danny Zuko and vacationing Sandy Olsson met at the beach and fell in love. When the summer comes to an end, Sandy, who is going back to Australia, frets that they might never meet again, but Danny tells her that their love is "only the beginning", and they will stay friends. The film moves to the start of the new school year at Rydell High School ("Grease"). Danny, a greaser, is a member of the T-Birds, consisting of his best friend Kenickie, Doody, Sonny, and Putzie. The Pink Ladies, a sassy, popular clique of girls, also arrive, consisting of Rizzo, Frenchy, Marty, and Jan. After her parents unexpectedly decide to move from Australia, Sandy enrolls at Rydell and is befriended by Frenchy, who considers dropping out of high school to become a beautician by going to a beauty school. Unaware of each others presence at Rydell, Danny and Sandy tell their curious groups the accounts of events during the pairs brief romance, without initially mentioning the others name. Sandys version emphasizes the romance of the affair, and the truth and purity, while Dannys version is more sexual ("Summer Nights"). When Sandy finally tells everyone it was Danny Zuko, Rizzo arranges a surprise reunion for the two at a pep rally, where Sandy is cheering along with high-achiever and resident swot, Patty Simcox. At the rally, Sandy catches the eye of a muscly member of the football team. When Sandy and Danny are reunited, they are initially elated, but Danny soon slips back into his greaser attitude, which offends Sandy. At the same rally, Kenickie reveals his new car, a dilapidated used jalopy, and announces he has entered it into a "pinks" street race at Thunder Road. Frenchy invites Sandy to her house for a sleepover. Sandy vomits at trying her first cigarette, drinking a dessert wine, and getting her ears pierced by Frenchy. While she recovers in the bathroom, Rizzo makes fun of her innocent and virtuous nature ("Look At Me, Im Sandra Dee"). The T-Birds arrive in Kenickies car, and Rizzo departs with Kenickie, leaving the other T-Birds stranded. Sandy laments over her feelings towards Danny, despite his earlier behavior ("Hopelessly Devoted to You"). Before Kenickie and Rizzo start having sex, the condom Kenickie is using breaks. The two are also interrupted by Leo, leader of the T-Birds rival gang, the Scorpions, and his tall and brash girlfriend Cha-Cha. The next day, the T-Birds are looking over Kenickies car, and although they are initially skeptical of its potential, Danny and Kenickie explain the modifications they could add to make it a hot-rodding sex machine ("Greased Lightnin"). In an attempt to impress Sandy, Danny approaches Coach Calhoun in an effort to become a high school athlete. Dannys pride and lack of experience lead to him picking fights with the jocks when he tries to play basketball, wrestling or baseball, so Calhoun suggests cross-country running, in which Danny excels. Dannys running proves to impress Sandy, prompting the two to reconcile for a date at the Frosty Palace; when the other greasers arrive, Danny and Sandy promptly leave in discomfort. Kenickie and a noticeably distressed Rizzo get into an argument and break up, while Putzie and Jan arrange to go to the dance. Left alone, Frenchy—who dropped out of Rydell to enroll in beauty school, only to quit when she turned her own hair bright pink—is visited by a guardian angel who advises her to return to Rydell ("Beauty School Dropout"). The school dance arrives, broadcast live on television and hosted by DJ Vince Fontaine, who flirts with Marty. Rizzo and Kenickie attempt to spite one another by bringing Leo and Cha-Cha as their dates, while Danny and Sandy arrive together. Danny and Sandy dance well and appear to be on their way to winning the competition, but a drunken Sonny pulls Sandy off the floor partway through. Cha-Cha joins Danny for the rest of the dance, and the two win ("Born to Hand Jive"). During the last dance ("Blue Moon"), Putzie leads Sonny and Doody in a mooning of the national TV audience, which Principal McGee vows to put on their permanent records. Danny apologizes to Sandy and tries to make it up to her by taking her to a drive-in theater. Shes unmoved by his pleas for forgiveness until he gives Sandy his ring, which she gleefully accepts. Moments later, Danny tries to aggressively make out with her, causing Sandy to angrily throw his ring at him and depart, leaving Danny distraught ("Sandy"). Meanwhile, because she skipped a period, Rizzo quietly admits she may be pregnant to Marty, who in turn tells Sonny, and the rumor spreads like wildfire through the drive-in, reaching Kenickie just as Rizzo is walking past. He attempts to talk to Rizzo about it, telling her he doesnt run away from his mistakes. Rizzo tells him it was someone elses mistake, a response that angers Kenickie. At school the next day, word of Rizzos pregnancy fears reaches Patty Simcox, who has spread the gossip to her clique and sneers at Rizzo as they walk by. A visibly hurt Rizzo, who thanks Sandy for her offer of help, sings to herself about how her sins are not as bad as they could be ("There Are Worse Things I Could Do"). On the day of the race, Kenickie asks Danny to be on standby in case he decides to back out. Moments before the race is set to begin, Kenickie suffers a concussion when he bends over to pick up a penny for good luck and Putzie opens the car door on Kenickies head, and Danny takes the helm of the car. Leo and Danny run a tight race, with Leo attempting to shred Dannys tires with bladed hubcaps (in a sequence paying homage to Ben-Hur); Danny eventually wins when Leo skids out. Sandy watches from afar and concludes that she still loves Danny. She decides to change her attitude and image to impress him and asks Frenchy for help ("Look At Me, Im Sandra Dee (Reprise)"). On the last day of school, a sobbing Principal McGee and her equally nostalgic assistant Blanche, in a speech over the intercom, tell the students that they could be future leaders. The school hosts a carnival where Sonny and Putzie learn that, because they either never took or failed physical education, they have to take summer school with Coach Calhoun in order to get their diplomas. Kenickie approaches Rizzo and demands to talk to her, only to have her reveal she is not pregnant after all. Overjoyed, they reunite. Danny shows up wearing a Lettermans sweater and reveals he is now a letterman for the cross-country team, to the T-Birds dismay. Danny confesses it is a decision he has made in an effort to clean up his image so that he can be together with Sandy, telling the T-Birds that they too will have to grow up and stop following people all the time. The group is subsequently stunned when Sandy appears seconds later sporting a new hairstyle, dressed in black leather, and smoking a cigarette. In song, the two admit they love each other and reunite ("Youre the One That I Want") and Sandy also tells Danny that if she was willing to change for him then it is only fair that he do the same for her by being faithful and more mature. The gang realizes that high school is now over, and worries that theyll never see each other again. Danny insists, "Nah, thatll never happen," and everyone celebrates their friendship ("We Go Together"). As the song nears its conclusion, Danny and Sandy depart in a red hot rod, which takes flight, and the pair wave goodbye to their friends.
Grease (film)
1982