Matt Buckner (Elijah Wood), a journalism major, is expelled from Harvard University after cocaine is discovered in his room. However, the cocaine belongs to his roommate Jeremy Van Holden (Terence Jay). Buckner is afraid to speak up because the Van Holdens are a powerful family, and Jeremy offers him $10,000 for taking the blame. Matt does not initially accept the money, but reconsiders and uses it to visit his sister Shannon (Claire Forlani), her husband Steve Dunham (Marc Warren) and their young son, Ben (James Allison) living in London. There, Matt meets Steves brother, Pete (Charlie Hunnam), an acerbic and imposing Cockney who leads the local football hooligan firm – Green Street Elite (GSE): a group of football supporters who arrange fights after matches – and teaches at a local school. Steve asks Pete to take Matt to a football match between West Ham and Birmingham City, though Pete is reluctant to take a "Yank" to a football match, because of the xenophobic attitude of his friends. He is persuaded because Steve will only give the money Pete needs to Matt. When Pete changes his mind and demands the money from Matt a minor scuffle between the two ensues, where Pete quickly gets the upper hand. He then subsequently decides to take Matt to the game, thinking he might learn something. Matt meets Petes friends and his firm in the Abbey, their local pub. The hooligans all befriend Matt, with the exception of Petes stubborn right-hand man, Bovver (Leo Gregory). After a few pints of lager, they head to Upton Park for the match. After the match, Pete, Bovver, and the other firm members agree to go and fight some Birmingham fans, but Matt decides that it is not for him and tells Pete he is going to take the train home. On his way back to the underground, Matt is jumped by three Birmingham fans, who nearly give him a Chelsea grin (Glasgow Smile), but he is rescued by some GSE members, who are on their way to a larger fight. Though grossly outnumbered, the GSE manage to stand their ground until reinforcements chase off the Birmingham firm. Matt does well in his first true fight and is inducted into the GSE. After a row with Steve, Matt moves in with Pete, and the two exchange stories. The GSE firm then head to an away game against Manchester United. Matt was not meant to come but ends up sneaking onto the train. Whilst on the train they are warned that 40 Manchester United firm members are waiting for them at the station singing "Wheres your famous GSE!". Bovver hits the emergency stop button which allows the GSE to get off at an earlier stop:Macclesfield. Having failed to find a taxi, they persuade a van driver to take them into Manchester. Matt sits in the front of the van with the driver; the rest of the GSE are in the rear. As the van approaches the Manchester United fans, Matt tells them that they are moving equipment for a Hugh Grant film, so the fans let them through. When past them, he stops the van, opens up the back, and the GSE charge out to attack the United firm members. They win the fight and run away, singing "Theres your famous GSE!" It is revealed earlier in the movie to Matt that the GSEs sworn enemy is Millwalls firm, led by Tommy Hatcher (Geoff Bell), with whom Bovver makes negotiations after getting jealous of Matt. After one of the members of the GSE sees Matt meeting his father, a renowned journalist for The Times, for lunch, they assume Matt is a "journo" as well. Bovver informs Pete of this, and, when Steve finds out, he goes to the Abbey to warn Matt. Matt discovers that Steve is the founder and former leader of the GSE, nicknamed “The Major", who retired from football hooliganism a decade prior after witnessing the death of Tommy’s 12 year old son in a fight between Millwall and the GSE following a match, which drove Tommy insane, leading him to blame Steve and the GSE for his sons death. At that moment, Bovver and Pete arrive, get into a brawl within the Abbey, in which Bovver comes out defeated. Outraged, Bovver goes to Millwalls local and asks Tommy to ambush GSE at the Abbey. Initially reluctant to get involved with an internal struggle within the GSE, Tommy agrees upon learning that Steve is there. Pete angrily confronts Matt in the bathroom over the covering-up of his real identity. The Millwall firm then crash the Abbey, and petrol bomb the bar. On arrival, Tommy confronts Steve, whose attempts to convince Tommy that he is no longer involved in the GSE only further reminds him of his son, and he stabs Steve in the neck with a broken bottle, telling him that if he dies tonight then they are both even. Bovver, who had been knocked unconscious by Tommys right-hand man upon arriving at the Abbey, awakes just in time to help get Steve to the hospital, where Pete slams into Bovver for his betrayal. Shannon decides to return to the United States to ensure the safety of her family. The two firms meet near the Millennium Dome the next day for a violent and blood-curdling final brawl. Matt and Bovver show up to fight for the GSE, but Shannon turns up with Ben to look for Matt and is subsequently attacked by Tommy’s right-hand man. Matt and Bovver come to their rescue. Pete notices that Tommy is approaching the car, and distracts Tommy by goading him to "finish him off". When Tommy declares to have finished with him, Pete then retorts that Tommy was to blame for his sons death, having failed to protect him, shouting "he was your son!". Tommy snaps and tackles Pete to the ground, eventually beating him to death, all the while shouting out a variation of the words to the chant "Only a poor little Hammer", using it as an analogy for Petes condition. As both sides draw a line at manslaughter, the fight completely halts at this point, and a distraught Tommy is pulled off Pete by members of his firm. Everyone on both sides gathers around Petes dead body in shock, with Bovver sobbing at his side. Matt returns to the United States and confronts Jeremy Van Holden in a restaurant toilet, where Jeremy is snorting cocaine. Jeremy arrogantly tells Matt to leave during a brief discussion in which he admits to being the cocaine stashs owner. Matt then pulls out a tape recorder and plays back what Jeremy just said, saying that it is his "ticket back to Harvard". Jeremy lunges at him to try to get the tape, but Matt, using his newly-acquired fighting skills from his exploits with the GSE, effortlessly subdues him. Matt raises his fist as if to punch Jeremy but ultimately chooses not to, instead walking out with a smile as Jeremy collapses to the floor, anxious. The film ends with Matt walking down the street outside the restaurant singing "Im Forever Blowing Bubbles".
Green Street (film)
2005