Professional assassin Martin Blank finds himself depressed and disillusioned with his work. Grocer, his chief rival, is attempting to incorporate the hitman business, but Martin refuses to join, putting the two at odds. Following a botched contract, Martin accepts an invitation to his 10-year high school reunion in his hometown of Grosse Pointe, Michigan. He is persuaded into going by both his reluctant therapist, Dr. Oatman, and his secretary Marcella, who books him a contract in Michigan that coincides with the reunion, ostensibly to make amends with the client whose contract was botched. Upon arriving in Grosse Pointe, Martin reconnects with his childhood friend Paul and his high school sweetheart Debi Newberry, now a radio disc jockey, whom Martin had abandoned on prom night to enlist in the army. He also visits his mentally ill mother in a retirement home, and his fathers grave. Meanwhile, Martin is being stalked by Felix LaPoubelle, another hitman who attempts to kill Martin in the convenience store built over his childhood home. He is also followed by two NSA agents who were tipped off to Martins contract by Grocer. Despite these dangers, Martin remains distracted by his desire to win over Debi and fails to open the dossier on his target. At the reunion, Martin and Debi mingle with their former classmates, and begin to fall in love all over again. Later, while exploring the halls alone, Martin is ambushed by LaPoubelle, whom he kills in self defense. Debi stumbles upon the scene and flees the reunion in horror. Paul arrives moments later, and helps Martin dispose of LaPoubelles body in the school furnace. Debi later confronts Martin in his hotel room; he reveals that when he joined the army, his psyche profile showed a "moral flexibility" that made him suitable to work as an assassin for the CIA, after which he decided to go freelance. His rationalizations for his work terrify Debi even further; she rejects his attempts at reconciliation and walks out. Martin fires Oatman over the phone, lays off Marcella, and finally opens the dossier detailing the contract that brought him to Grosse Pointe. He is surprised to find that the target is Debis father, Bart, who is scheduled to testify against Martins client. Accompanied by several henchmen, Grocer decides to kill Bart himself to impress Martins client. Martin abandons the contract and rescues Bart, driving him to the Newberry house and holing up inside. During the siege, Martin finally admits to Debi that he left her on prom night to protect her from his homicidal urges, which were due to his troubled upbringing. Martin gradually kills off the henchmen, and the NSA agents are gunned down by both Grocer and Martin. Martin then kills Grocer by smashing a television over his head. Injured and winded, Martin proposes marriage to Debi, who does not respond. In the end, Debi and Martin leave Grosse Pointe together.
Grosse Pointe Blank
1997