Weatherman Phil Connors reassures Pittsburgh viewers that an approaching blizzard will miss western Pennsylvania. He goes with news producer Rita Hanson and cameraman Larry to Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania, to cover the Groundhog Day festivities. Phil makes no secret of his contempt for the assignment, the small town, and the "hicks" who live there. The next day, Phil awakens at his Punxsutawney bed and breakfast to Sonny & Chers "I Got You Babe" on the clock radio. He tapes a half-hearted report on Punxsutawney Phil and the towns festivities. Rita wants to stay and cover other events, but Phil wants to return to Pittsburgh. The blizzard blankets the region in snow, stranding them in Punxsutawney. Phil shuns the celebrations and retires to bed early. Phil wakes to "I Got You Babe" and the same announcement from the radio, and discovers the days events repeating exactly. Phil relives the day and returns to bed, assuming it was a dream, but it is still Groundhog Day when he wakes: he is trapped in a time loop that no one else is aware of. Realizing there are no consequences for his actions, he spends the first several loops indulging in binge drinking, one-night stands, and reckless driving. After trying and failing several times to seduce Rita, he becomes depressed and commits suicide several times, but does not escape the loop. Phil tries to explain his situation to Rita, for whom he has feelings, by accurately predicting the days events. Rita sympathises and they spend the entirety of one loop together, but Phil wakes up alone as usual. He decides to use his knowledge of the days events to better himself and the lives of others; he learns how to play the piano, sculpt ice, and speak French, but is unable to prevent the death of a homeless man. During one loop, Phil enthusiastically reports the Groundhog Day festivities, amazing Rita. They spend the rest of the day together, with Phil impressing her with his apparent overnight transformation and charitable deeds. She successfully bids for Phil at a charity bachelor auction. Phil makes an ice sculpture of Ritas face, and tells her that no matter what happens, even if he is doomed to continue awakening alone each morning forever, he wants her to know that he is finally happy, because he loves her. They retire together to Phils lodgings. Phil wakes to "I Got You Babe" again, but finds Rita is still in bed with him; he has escaped the time loop.
Groundhog Day (film)
1993