On November 5, 1699, Lemuel Gulliver washes onto the beach of Lilliput, after a storm at sea and ultimate shipwreck. Following the calm of the storm, the Town Crier Gabby stumbles across Gulliver in terror and rushes back to Lilliput to warn King Little of a “giant on the beach”. But Little and King Bombo of Blefescu are signing a wedding contract between their children, Princess Glory of Lilliput and Prince David of Blefuscu. All is fine until an argument starts over which national anthem is to be played at the wedding. The argument cancels the wedding and starts a war. After failures, Gabby tells King Little of the "giant on the beach" (i.e. Gulliver), and leads a mob to the beach to capture him. There, the Lilliputians tie Gulliver to a wagon on which they convey him to the capital. In the next morning, Gulliver awakens and breaks himself free; but when they see that the invading Blefuscuians are intimidated by his size, the Lilliputians enlist his help against their neighbor, treating him with hospitality and making him a new set of clothes. King Bombo, who has sent three spies, Sneak, Snoop, and Snitch, into Lilliput, orders them to kill Gulliver; whereupon the spies steal Gullivers flintlock pistol, confiscated by the Lilliputians, and prepare to use it against him. Meanwhile, Gulliver learns of the wars cause from Glory and David, and proposes a new song that combines the two proposed by their fathers. When the spies assure King Bombo that they can kill Gulliver, Bombo announces by carrier pigeon Twinkletoes, that he will attack at dawn. Gabby intercepts this message and warns the Lilliputians; but is himself captured by the spies and stuffed in a sack, who prepare the pistol. As the Blefuscuian fleet approaches Lilliput, Gulliver ties them together and draws them disarmed to shore. The spies fire at Gulliver from a cliff, but Prince David diverts the shot and falls to his apparent death. Using Davids body to illustrate his point, Gulliver scolds both Lilliput and Blefuscu for fighting; but when they solemnize a truce, reveals that David is unharmed, whereupon David and Glory sing their combined song for everyone to hear. The spies released Gabby. Both thereafter build a new ship for Gulliver, on which he departs.
Gulliver's Travels (1939 film)
1939