At the age of 14, Bart Tare robs a hardware store and steals a gun. He is sent to reform school by a sympathetic Judge Willoughby (Morris Carnovsky), despite the testimony of his friends Dave and Clyde, his older sister Ruby and others that he would never kill any living creature, even though he has had a fascination with guns even as a child. Flashbacks provide a portrait of Bart who, after he kills a young chick with a BB gun at age seven, is hesitant to harm anyone with guns even though he is a good shot with a pistol. After reform school and a stint in the Army teaching marksmanship, Bart (John Dall) returns home. He, Dave (Nedrick Young) and Clyde (Harry Lewis) go to a traveling carnival in town. Bart challenges sharpshooter Annie Laurie Starr (Peggy Cummins) to a contest and wins. She gets him a job with the carnival, and he becomes smitten with her. Their attraction inflames the jealousy of their boss, Packett (Berry Kroeger), who wants Laurie for himself. As Packett tries to force himself on her, Bart enters and shoots a mirror. Laurie and Bart get fired and leave together. The couple get married and embark on a happy honeymoon. She warns him beforehand that she is "bad, but will try to be good". When their money runs out, though, Laurie gives Bart a stark choice: join her in a career of crime or she will leave him. They hold up stores and gas stations, but the money does not last long. While fleeing a police car, Laurie tells Bart to shoot at the policeman driving so they can escape, but he hesitates and becomes somewhat disoriented. Ultimately, he shoots the tire out and the couple escapes. Later that day, Laurie intends to shoot and kill a grocer they had just robbed, but Bart prevents her from doing so. The couple have now been identified in national newspapers as robbers and murderers. Bart says he is done with a life of crime. Laurie persuades him to take on one last big robbery so they can flee the country and live in peace and comfort. They get jobs at a meat processing plant and make detailed plans. When they hold up the payroll office, a secretary pulls the burglar alarm and Laurie shoots her dead. From the car, Laurie kills a security guard as well. The two are supposed to split up for a couple of months and have separate getaway cars to minimize the chances of both being caught, but neither can bear to be away from the other. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is brought in, and the fugitives become the targets of an intense manhunt, yet they evade a statewide dragnet and escape to California. Bart arranges for passage to Mexico, but the FBI tracks them to a dance hall by using the serial numbers of bills from the meat plant. They are forced to flee, leaving all their loot behind. With roadblocks everywhere, they jump on a train and get off near his sister Rubys house. Barts old friend, now the local sheriff, notices that Rubys house has the curtains drawn and the children are not in school. He informs Barts other old friend, now a news reporter, and the two plead with Bart to give himself and Laurie up. Instead, the couple flee into the mountains where Bart used to go camping. Pursued by police dogs, they are surrounded in reed grass the next morning. In dense fog, Dave and Clyde approach to try to save their lives. As soon as Bart sees Laurie preparing to gun them down, he shoots her and is in turn killed by the police.
Gun Crazy
1950