The film begins with a tough Greek lieutenant (J. Carrol Naish) announcing that the United States Marine Corps is seeking volunteers for a hazardous mission and special unit. Sgt. "Transport" Anderof (Sam Levene) meets the commander of the unit, Lt. Col. Thorwald (Randolph Scott), who he has served with while stationed in China. Thorwald explains that he left the Corps to serve with the Chinese guerrillas fighting the Japanese during the Second Sino-Japanese War to learn their methods and has decided to form a unit using the qualities of Gung Ho or "work together". Among the volunteers for the unit are a hillbilly (Rod Cameron), who responds to a gunnery sergeants (Walter Sande) question whether he can kill someone with the fact that he already has; specifically a romantic rival. Alan Curtis is an ordained minister keeping his vocation a secret. Robert Mitchum is "Pig Iron"; a boxer from a background of poverty and hard work. Harold Landon is a young and small street kid who is initially rejected by Naish but wins him over, as both worked as dishwashers on ships bound to the United States from Piraeus, Greece. Noah Beery Jr. and David Bruce are rivals for United States Navy nurse Lt. Grace McDonald. Volunteers with brief screen time include a Filipino wishing to avenge his sister (who was left behind in Manilla and may have been raped or killed by the Japanese) who teaches the Raiders knife fighting, a veteran of the Spanish Civil War who sees the war as a continuation of the fight against fascism, and a Marine who honestly admits "I just dont like Japs". The film moves rapidly in a documentary style, with stock footage of training narrated by Chet Huntley. Those who make it through the training are sent to Hawaii for further jungle warfare training, where they witness the damage of the attack on Pearl Harbor. In Hawaii they hear a radio bulletin of the announcement of the Battle of Guadalcanal. The Marines are ordered to board two submarines, the USS Nautilus and the USS Argonaut, destined for a commando raid on a Japanese-held island. After a claustrophobic voyage, the Raiders invade the island from rubber boats. The Marine landing is met by fire from snipers hiding in palm trees. The Marines dispose of them, attack the Japanese headquarters, wipe out the garrison, destroy installations with explosives, then board the submarines for their return home.
Gung Ho! (1943 film)
1943