In Baltimore, Maryland in the year 1962, Tracy Turnblad and her best friend, Penny Pingleton, audition for The Corny Collins Show, a popular Baltimore teenage dance show (based on the real-life Buddy Deane Show). Penny is too nervous and stumbles over her answers, and another girl, Nadine, is cut for being black (the show has a "Negro Day" on the last Thursday of every month, she is told). However, despite being overweight, Tracy is a strong enough dancer to become a regular on the show, infuriating the shows reigning queen, Amber Von Tussle, a mean, privileged, beautiful high school classmate whose racist parents, Velma and Franklin Von Tussle, own Tilted Acres Amusement Park and have banned African Americans from going there. Tracy steals Ambers boyfriend, Link Larkin, and competes against her for the title of Miss Auto Show 1963, fueling Ambers hatred of her. Tracys growing confidence leads to her being hired as a plus-size model for the Hefty Hideaway clothing store owned by Mr. Pinky. She is also inspired to bleach, tease, and rat her big hair into styles popular in the 1960s. At school, a teacher brands her hairdo a "hair-dont" and sends her to the principals office, from which Tracy is sent to special education classes, where she meets several black classmates who have been put there to hold them back academically. The students introduce Tracy to Motormouth Maybelle, an R&B record shop owner and host of the monthly "Negro Day" on The Corny Collins Show. They teach Tracy, Penny, and Link dance moves and Penny begins an interracial romance with Motormouth Maybelles son, Seaweed. This horrifies Pennys parents, Prudence and Paddy, who imprison their daughter in her bedroom and try to brainwash her into dating white boys and oppose integration with the help of Dr. Frederickson, a quack psychiatrist. Seaweed later helps her break out of the house and run away. It is implied that she will never return, as she has finally broken free from her parents. Undeterred, Tracy uses her newfound fame to champion the cause of racial integration with the help of Motormouth Maybelle, Corny Collins, his assistant Tammy, and her own agoraphobic, slightly overbearing, overweight mother, Edna. After a race riot at Tilted Acres results in Tracys arrest, the Von Tussles grow more defiant in their opposition to racial integration. They plot to sabotage the Miss Auto Show 1963 pageant with a bomb hidden in Velmas towering bouffant wig. The plan literally blows up in Velmas face when the bomb detonates prematurely, and the Von Tussles are dragged away by the Baltimore police. Tracy, who had won the crown but was disqualified for being in reform school, dethrones Amber after the governor of Maryland pardons her; Tracy then shows up at the competition, integrates the show, and encourages everyone to dance.
Hairspray (1988 film)
2007