On October 31, 1988, Michael Myers (Don Shanks) is shot and falls down a mine shaft. The state troopers toss dynamite down the mine, but Michael manages to escape. He stumbles into a nearby river, where he floats downstream and washes up at a riverside shack inhabited by a local hermit. Michael falls into a coma, placing him in the hermits care. On October 30, 1989, Michael awakens, kills the hermit, and returns to Haddonfield, where his niece Jamie Lloyd (Danielle Harris) continues to live after nearly being killed by Michael the year before. Jamie has been committed to a childrens hospital, having been rendered mute due to psychological trauma suffering from nightmares and seizures, and being treated for attacking her foster mother under Michael’s influence, but exhibits signs of a telepathic link with her uncle. Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasence) becomes aware of Jamies psychic link with Michael, and tries to convince Sheriff Ben Meeker (Beau Starr) that Michael is still alive. Meanwhile, Michael kills Jamies sister Rachel (Ellie Cornell) by stabbing her in the chest with a pair of scissors, and begins stalking their friend Tina (Wendy Kaplan), also killing Tinas boyfriend Mike with a sharp rake to his head. Later that night, Tina and her friends Sam and Spitz go to a Halloween party at a farm. Sensing that Tina is in danger, Jamie, having regained her ability to speak, goes to warn her; her friend Billy goes with her. While Sam and Spitz are having sex in the barn, Michael murders them. Spitz is impaled with a pitchfork and Sam is sliced across the chest with a garden scythe. Michael then leaves the barn and kills two deputies that Loomis had asked to keep an eye on Tina for her protection. After the party, Tina goes to the barn and discovers the bodies. Michael chases Tina, Jamie, and Billy with a car. Tina sacrifices herself to save Jamie, and Michael fatally stabs her in the chest. Loomis, Sheriff Meeker, and the police arrive on the scene and rescue Jamie and Billy. Jamie finally agrees to put herself in danger to help Loomis stop Michael for good. With Jamies help, Loomis lures Michael back to his abandoned childhood home. In the old Myers house, Loomis and the police create a set-up. Jamie senses that Michael has arrived at the clinic and Billy is in danger, which causes Sheriff Meeker, along with most of his backup, to leave the Myers house. Eventually, Michael arrives at his old home and kills the two remaining officers. Loomis tries to reason with him, but Michael subdues him and then goes after Jamie. Jamie hides in an old laundry chute, but she is forced to abandon it after Michael finds her and repeatedly stabs the chute. She races upstairs to the attic where she finds a coffin that was stolen from the cemetery earlier, and the bodies of Rachel, Mike, and Rachels dog Max. Michael finds Jamie, but before he can kill her, she tries to appeal her uncles humanity. At Jamies request, Michael takes off his mask. However, Jamie touches Michaels face, sending him into a fit of rage. Loomis appears, using Jamie as bait, and lures Michael into a trap to weaken him with a tranquilizer gun. After beating Michael unconscious with a wooden plank, Loomis suffers a stroke and collapses. Michael is locked up in the sheriffs station, to eventually be escorted to a maximum-security prison, where, Meeker says, he will remain "until the day he dies," to which Jamie responds, "Hell never die." After Jamie is escorted out to be taken home, a mysterious "Man in Black" arrives and attacks the police station, killing the officers, including Sheriff Meeker. In the aftermath, Jamie walks through the station, and discovers her uncles cell empty, prompting her to begin sobbing in terror.
Halloween 5: The Revenge of Michael Myers
1989