On October 29, 1998, Dr. Sam Loomis former colleague Marion Chambers returns home to Langdon, Illinois, to find that her house had been burglarized. Her teenage neighbor Jimmy and his friend Tony call the police. Marion discovers that the file on Laurie Strode, Michael Myers sister, is missing. She immediately rushes back over to Jimmys house, where she finds him and Tony dead. Michael Myers suddenly appears and attacks Marion before slitting her throat, killing her. The police arrive just as Michael leaves the house with Lauries file. Two investigators discuss what they know about Loomis life. Having survived the explosion at Haddonfield Memorial Hospital in 1978, Loomis was under Marions care at this house before dying, presumably from natural causes. However, even after nearly 20 years, Loomis refused to believe that Michael was dead, and devoted the rest of his life to studying all information about his former patient. The two investigators then enter his private study, completely untouched by Michaels burglary, and find that the walls are covered with photographs, sketches, and newspaper articles about Michael; from the murder of his sister Judith, to the stealing of her tombstone, to the murders in 1978, as well as articles on Laurie Strode, including her supposed death in an automobile accident. Meanwhile, in California, Laurie is living a seemingly perfect life with her teen son John and her boyfriend Will, and has a career as the headmistress of Hillcrest Academy, a private boarding school where John attends. However, Laurie is far from happy, as the tragic events from 1978 still haunt her and lives in fear that her brother may return. Laurie has tried to get her life together with the hope that Michael would never come after her again. She ultimately faked her death in a car accident, and then relocated to California under an assumed name, Keri Tate. While a woman and her daughter are at a rest stop, the two narrowly avoid Michael, who steals the womans car. At the academy campus, the students leave for an overnight field trip at the Yosemite National Park. Later that evening, John and his girlfriend Molly are having a Halloween party in the basement with their friends, Charlie and his girlfriend Sarah . Charlie goes off into the kitchen and is killed by Michael. Sarah finds Charlies body and tries to escape via the dumbwaiter, but Michael savagely disfigures her leg before stabbing her to death. John and Molly go looking for their friends and are chased by Michael through the school grounds. Laurie opens the door for them and finally comes face-to-face with Michael for the first time in two decades. When Will sees the schools security guard, Ronny, approaching, he mistakes him for Michael and shoots him. Michael then appears and stabs Will in the back, killing him. Laurie helps John and Molly escape before heading back to face Michael herself. She stabs Michael multiple times, knocking him off a balcony, but when she tries to stab him again, Ronny, who survived the shooting, subdues her, telling her that Michael is dead. The police and paramedics arrive and put Michael in a body bag, loading it into a coroners van. Laurie, knowing that Michael is not really dead and is extremely difficult to kill, grabs the fire axe and an officers gun and steals the van. When Michael awakens and escapes the body bag, Laurie slams on the brakes, throwing him through the windshield. She then hits him at full speed and the vehicle tumbles down a cliff with her falling out and pinning Michael between the van and a tree. Laurie recovers the axe and decapitates Michael, finally killing him. Police sirens are heard off in the distance as Laurie exhales.
Halloween H20: 20 Years Later
1998