In 1963, on Halloween night in Haddonfield, Illinois, Michael Myers, dressed in a clown costume and mask, inexplicably stabs his older sister Judith to death with a kitchen knife in their home. He is subsequently hospitalized at Warren Countys Smiths Grove Sanitarium. Fifteen years later, on October 30, 1978, Michaels child psychiatrist, Dr. Sam Loomis, and his colleague, Marion Chambers, arrive at Smiths Grove Sanitarium to take Michael to court. Michael escapes from the sanitarium, stealing Loomis’ car. Returning home to Haddonfield, Michael kills a mechanic for his uniform and steals a white mask, a couple of knives, and some rope from a local store. The next day, on Halloween, Michael stalks high school student Laurie Strode after she and Tommy Doyle drop off a key at his former house, so her father can sell it. Throughout the day, Laurie notices Michael following her, but her friends Annie Brackett and Lynda Van der Klok dismiss her concerns. Loomis arrives in Haddonfield in search of Michael, knowing his intentions. After discovering that Judith Myers headstone has been stolen from the local cemetery, Loomis meets with Annies father, Sheriff Leigh Brackett. The two begin their search at Michaels house, where Loomis tries to warn the skeptical sheriff about the danger Michael poses, explaining that Michael is pure evil and capable of further violence, despite years of catatonia. Sheriff Brackett patrols the streets while Loomis waits and watches the house, expecting Michael to return there. Later that night, Laurie goes over to babysit Tommy, while Annie babysits Lindsey Wallace just across the street, unaware that Michael is watching them. When Annies boyfriend, Paul, calls her to come and pick him up, she takes Lindsey over to the Doyle house to spend the night with Laurie and Tommy. Annie is just about to leave in her car when Michael, who stowed away in the back seat, strangles her before slitting her throat, killing her. Soon after, Lynda and her boyfriend Bob Simms arrive at the Wallace house. After having sex, Bob goes downstairs to get a beer for Lynda, but Michael stabs him with a knife which pins him to the wall, killing him. Michael then poses as Bob in a ghost costume and confronts Lynda, who teases him, having no effect. Lynda calls Laurie; just as Laurie picks up, Michael strangles Lynda to death with the telephone cord. Meanwhile, Loomis discovers the stolen car and begins combing the streets. A suspicious Laurie goes over to the Wallace house. There, she finds the corpses of Annie, Bob, and Lynda in an upstairs bedroom, as well as Judith Myers headstone. Horrified, Laurie cowers in the hallway, when Michael suddenly appears and attacks her, slashing her arm. Barely escaping, Laurie races back to the Doyle house. Michael gets in and attacks her again, but Laurie manages to fend him off long enough for Tommy and Lindsey to escape. Loomis sees the two children fleeing the house, and goes to investigate, finding Michael and Laurie fighting upstairs. Loomis shoots Michael six times, knocking him off the balcony; when Loomis goes to check Michaels body, he finds it missing. Unsurprised, Loomis stares off into the night. Places where Michael had previously been are shown as his breathing is heard, indicating he could be anywhere.
Halloween (1978 film)
2007