While stationed in Algiers Commandant Denis Hogan (Victor McLaglen) receives a letter containing bad news and requests that he be allowed to return to his home country of Ireland, where he is a wanted man. In Ireland, Baron James OBrien (Hobart Bosworth) is told by his doctor that he has no more than a month to live. He decides to marry off his only daughter Connaught (June Collyer) to a socialite, John DArcy (Earle Foxe) despite her love of childhood friend Dermot McDermot (Larry Kent). Hogan returns to Ireland and disguises himself as a holy man. On his way to the OBriens house he is recognised by a gatekeeper, whom he reveal his intentions to kill a man to. Hogan meets Dermot McDermot and the three men witness the lights of Glenmalures chapel being lit, signifying a wedding is taking place. At this time a group of soldiers ask the gate keeper if he has seen Hogan. Later that night, after Connaught and DArcy have been wed, the Baron dies. On the night of his funeral Hogan sneaks about the grounds of Hangmans House and is spotted by DArcy. DArcy is startled by the appearance of Hogan. At bedtime DArcy tries to sleep with Connaught but she rejects his advances.  A community race is held on St. Stephens Day and Connaughts horse The Bard is due to race. The horses jockey goes missing just before the race because of interference from DArcy who has bet against the horse. Dermot is required to jockey the horse and he wins the race leading a drunken DArcy to shoot The Bard. DArcy is ostracised by the community because of this. Hogan is arrested at the race. At night Dermot and DArcy meet in a pub where DArcy reveals that he had an affair with Hogans sister. Dermot gives DArcy money to leave Ireland and threatens him that if he ever sees him again he will kill him. Hogan escapes from prison and a gunfight erupts between his men and the guards. Later Dermot and Connaught visit Hogans hideout and Hogan reveals that his sister died following DArcys desertion. Connaught returns to Hangmans House to discover that DArcy has returned. After a struggle she flees to Dermots house. Hogan and Dermot go to Hangmans House and confront DArcy. During a fight between the men a fire breaks out and burns down the house. Hogan and Dermot escape but DArcy falls to his death as a balcony collapses. Connaught and Dermot see Hogan off at the port as he returns to Algiers. Connaught gives Hogan a kiss and Dermot shakes his hands and thanks him. Connaught and Dermot walk away together as Hogan watches them.
Hangman's House
1928