Hangar 18 involves a U.F.O. cover-up, following an incident aboard the Space Shuttle. The orbiter is launching a satellite, which collides with a nearby unidentified object. The collision kills an astronaut in the launch bay. The incident is witnessed by astronauts Price and Bancroft. After returning to Earth, both men investigate what they know happened, but which the government tries its best to hide. The damaged alien spacecraft has been recovered after making a controlled landing in the Arizona desert, and brought by scientists to an Air Force base to be concealed and studied. Entering the ship, the scientists find it to have been manned by a crew of two aliens—both now dead. The technicians make three discoveries—a woman in some sort of stasis, who later awakens screaming; symbols on the control panels match those used in ancient Earth civilizations; the ships computer reveals extensive surveillance footage of power plants, military bases, industrial plants and major cities worldwide. One of the scientists deduces that the ship could not have reached Earth on its own, and that a mother ship—larger, faster and more long ranged than the one recovered—is still out there. Meanwhile, with their dogged pursuit to uncover the truth, both Bancroft and Price are targeted by the government. Chased by agents, Bancroft manages to get away, but Price is killed. Bancroft eventually manages to make his way to Hangar 18, where the alien craft is being studied. As the researchers discover evidence aboard the spacecraft that the aliens were planning to return to Earth, government agents remotely fly a jet filled with explosives into the hangar—a move aimed at killing off all involved in the cover-up in a final attempt to maintain secrecy. After the explosion, a news bulletin is released about the hangar explosion, causing a congressional hearing for evidence about the activities in Hangar 18. It is revealed that Bancroft and a few others survived the explosion, since they were inside the alien ship.
Hangar 18 (film)
1980