Hanna Heller is a fifteen-year-old girl who lives with her father, Erik Heller in rural northern Finland, near Kuusamo. Since the age of two years, Hanna has been trained by Erik, an ex-C.I.A. operative from Germany, to be a skilled assassin. He teaches her hand-to-hand combat and drills her in target shooting. He left the agency, going incognito into the Arctic. Erik knows a secret that cannot become public, and Marissa Wiegler, a senior C.I.A. officer, searches for him in order to eliminate him. Erik has trained Hanna with the intent that she will kill Marissa. One night, Hanna tells Erik that she is "ready" to face their enemies. Erik digs up a radio beacon that eventually will alert the C.I.A. to their presence. Although he warns Hanna that a confrontation with Marissa will be fatal for either her or Marissa, he leaves the final decision to Hanna, who activates the beacon. Erik leaves, instructing her to meet him in Berlin. Hanna is taken to an underground C.I.A. complex in Morocco where a suspicious Marissa sends a body double. While talking to the double, Hanna starts to cry and crawls sobbing into the lap of the double, which makes her captors uneasy. They send some guards to her cell to sedate her. As they enter the cell, Hanna kills the double along with some of the guards and escapes. Hanna meets Sebastian and Rachel, who are on a camper-van holiday with their children, Sophie and Miles in Morocco. She stows away in the familys camper-van on the ferry ride to Spain, seeking to reach Berlin. The family is kind to her, and she and Sophie become friends, even sharing a kiss together. Marissa hires Isaacs, a sadistic former agent, to capture Hanna. Hanna travels with the family as they drive north through France. Isaacs and two skinheads trail them and eventually corner Hanna and the family near Hamburg, but she manages to escape, killing one of the assailants. Marissa catches up with the British family and during interrogation finds out that Hanna is heading to Berlin. Arriving at the address that Erik had given her, Hanna meets with Knepfler, an eccentric old magician and a friend of Eriks, who lives in an abandoned amusement park. Hanna plans a rendezvous with her father. However, Marissa and Isaacs arrive. Hanna escapes, but overhears comments that suggest Erik is not her biological father. Later, Hanna goes to her grandmothers apartment where she finds Erik, who has unsuccessfully tried to kill Marissa in her hotel room. Hannas grandmother has been murdered by Marissa. Erik admits that he is not her biological father. He once recruited pregnant women into a C.I.A. program where their childrens DNA was enhanced in order to create super-soldiers. After the project was shut down, its subjects were eliminated. Marissa and Isaacs arrive; Erik acts as a distraction to allow Hanna to escape. Erik kills Isaacs in a fight, but is shot by Marissa, who goes to Knepflers house. Hanna is there, having just discovered Knepfler tortured to death by Isaacs. After a chase, Hanna kills Marissa.
Hanna (film)
2011