Seven years after the Buffalo Bill case, FBI agent Clarice Starling witnesses her career crumble around her. During a botched drug raid, Starling kills a meth dealer, who was holding a baby. Fugitive serial killer Hannibal Lecter, who has been living in Florence, Italy, under an assumed name, sends her a letter of condolence and requests more information about her personal life. Desperate to catch Lecter, the FBI tasks Starling with apprehending him. She meets with Barney Matthews, former orderly of Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane. When Barney asks Starling if she ever feared Lecter visiting her, she replied that she did not, as "he said he wouldnt". Meanwhile, Mason Verger, a wealthy, sadistic pedophile whom Lecter disfigured during a therapy session years before, plans to get revenge by feeding Lecter to wild boars, using Starling as bait. He is aided by corrupt Justice Department agent Paul Krendler, Starlings nemesis. Rinaldo Pazzi, a disgraced Italian detective, pursues Lecter in the interests of collecting Vergers bounty on him. However, Lecter disembowels and hangs Pazzi in reference to the lynchings of the Pazzi conspirators. After killing one of Vergers men, Lecter escapes to the United States, where he begins pursuing Starling. The novel briefly touches upon Lecters childhood, specifically the death of his younger sister, Mischa. The two were orphaned during World War II, and a group of deserters killed and ate Mischa, something that haunts Lecter. Barney briefly works for Verger, meeting Vergers sister and bodyguard Margot, a lesbian bodybuilder whom Verger molested and raped as a child. Her father disinherited her after learning of her homosexuality. Margot, who is infertile, tells him that she works for her brother because she needs Masons sperm to have a child with her partner, Judy, and inherit the Verger family fortune. Vergers men capture Lecter, and Starling pursues them. When Starling catches up to Lecter, she is able to cut him free before being shot with a tranquilizer by one of Vergers men, whom she shoots simultaneously. The boars are unleashed, but they lose interest in Lecter when they smell no fear on him, and instead turn on Vergers men, who had already been shot by Starling and lay incapacitated on the floor. In the confusion, Lecter carries the unconscious Starling to safety and escapes. At the same time, Margot obtains Masons sperm by sodomizing him with a cattle prod and kills him by shoving his pet moray eel down his throat. Lecter, who had briefly treated Margot after her brother abused her, had urged her to blame the murder on him, so she leaves a strand of Lecters hair at the scene. Using a regimen of psychotropic drugs and behavioral therapy, Lecter attempts to brainwash Starling, hoping to make her believe she is Mischa, returned to life. She ultimately resists, however, and tells him that Mischa will have to live on within him. Lecter captures Krendler and lobotomizes him, and then he and Starling eat Krendlers prefrontal cortex before Lecter kills him. Starling undresses and offers her breasts to Lecter, which he accepts. The two then become lovers and disappear together. Three years later, Barney and his girlfriend go to Buenos Aires to see a Johannes Vermeer painting. At the opera, Barney spots Lecter and Starling; fearing for his life, he flees with his girlfriend.
Hannibal (Harris novel)
2001