Happy Gilmore is an aspiring ice hockey player who possesses a powerful and dangerous slapshot that his father taught him as a child before he was apparently struck and killed by a wayward hockey puck, though his overaggressive nature and lack of skating talent consistently preclude him from joining a hockey team. Gilmores girlfriend, Terry, a school teacher, leaves him because of his hockey obsession. His grandmother, who raised him after his fathers death, has not paid her taxes for many years. As such, she owes the IRS $270,000 in back taxes, and her house is about to be repossessed. Gilmore has only ninety days to come up with the money, otherwise the house will be auctioned off. Gilmores grandmother moves into a retirement home, run by its sadistic manager, Hal. While repossessing his Grandmas furniture, a pair of removals men challenge Gilmore to hit golf balls. With his unorthodox, hockey slapshot-style swing, Gilmore hits a ball that strikes a house some 400 yards away. He wins $40 after the guys bet he cannot do it again. As a result, he starts hustling golfers with his swing at the driving range. He is spotted by Chubbs Peterson, a one-handed former golf star and current club pro, who convinces Gilmore to enter a local tournament for a chance to win prize money. Gilmore wins the tournament and earns a spot on the Pro Golf Tour, though Chubbs advises him to wait six months, so he can improve the game. However, Gilmore enters the Pro Golf Tour immediately, knowing that he has to come up with the money before the house is auctioned off. On the tour, Gilmore meets Shooter McGavin, who sees Gilmore as both a detriment to golf and a threat to his career. Although Gilmore has a powerful drive, his putting is terrible, and his violent outbursts and lack of golf etiquette quickly draw the attention of Commissioner Doug Thompson, who plots to expel Gilmore from the tour. Public Relations head Virginia Venit convinces him to reconsider, citing higher television ratings, increasing attendance, and drawing more youthful sponsors, while offering to work with Gilmore on his anger issues. Thompson threatens to fire her as well if there are any further incidents. Happy begins to improve his performance and behavior on the course and also develops a friendship with Venit, but his career is put on hold when a heckler throws him off his game during a pro-am with Bob Barker. Barker and Gilmore get into a physical altercation, which Barker ends up winning. The fight leads to Gilmore getting suspended from the tour and fined $25,000. Without being able to play on the tour or win prize money, Venit secures endorsement deals with Subway for Gilmore, allowing him to make the $275,000 necessary to buy back his grandmothers house, but is too late, and the house is already slated to go to auction. At the auction, McGavin, in a move of pure spite, outbids Gilmore for the house. He offers Gilmore the house in exchange for him quitting the tour. Gilmore accepts but Venit talks him out of it, telling him that his grandmother would rather see Gilmore be successful in life than just get the house back. Gilmore instead makes a wager with Shooter on the upcoming Tour Championship: if Gilmore wins, McGavin will give up the house, but if McGavin wins, Gilmore must quit the tour for good. Gilmore seeks the help of Chubbs, admitting his past mistakes, and the two head to a mini-golf course. Gilmore makes good progress, and later that night in his apartment, he presents Chubbs with a gift – the head of the alligator that bit his hand off years ago. However, Chubbs is startled by this and stumbles backwards, causing him to fall to his death through an open window. Determined to win the tournament for Chubbs, Gilmore is evenly matched with Shooter after the first two rounds, and leads Shooter by the end of the third day. On the fourth and final day, McGavin has to play a ball off the foot of Mr. Larson, a truculent former boss of Gilmores, who has become one of his most devoted supporters. When the crazed fan McGavin hired earlier hits a tower with his car, Gilmores shot is blocked. At McGavins urging, Gilmore has to take the shot. Gilmore than manages to make a hole in one with a trick shot Chubbs had taught him at Mini-Golf. Afterwards, Shooter attempts to steal Happys gold jacket, but is chased down by Mr. Larson along a mob of spectators, and brutally beaten. Back at Grandmas now-taken-back house, Gilmore is congratulated by the two-handed ghost of Chubbs, Abraham Lincoln, and the alligator, as Grandma, Virginia, and his homeless caddy, look on in confusion.
Happy Gilmore
1996