Theresa "Tree" Gelbman wakes up on her birthday on Monday, September 18, 2017 in the dorm room of classmate Carter Davis after a drunken binge the previous evening. Tree goes through the day being self-centered, dismissive, and condescending to her classmates and previous hook-ups, ignoring her fathers invitation to a restaurant, throwing away a birthday cupcake given to her by her roommate Lori Spengler, and having an affair with Dr. Gregory Butler, her professor. That night, while going to a party, Tree is lured into a tunnel where she is brutally murdered by a hooded figure wearing a mask of the campus mascot. Tree wakes up the next morning back in Carters bed with the previous days events repeating. Unnerved, she relives the day and avoids the tunnel, instead heading to a fraternity house for a surprise party. However, after becoming intimate with her classmate Nick, the masked killer murders him before killing Tree once more. Tree realizes that she is in a time loop and tries to avoid her death by barricading herself in her room. However, she is murdered again when the killer hides in her bedroom. Upon waking up again, she relays her story to Carter, who suggests that she take advantage of the loop in order to figure out who her killer is. She spends the next several iterations trailing suspected classmates and dying each time. After Tree dies from being bludgeoned by a baseball bat, she passes out shortly after waking up. She awakens in the campus hospital where she learns that her body shows evidence of recovery from multiple, massive, traumatic injuries, meaning she has retained damage from her previous murders even after waking up fully healed every time. Tree escapes the hospital room only to be chased by the killer until she manages to flee in Butlers car. While driving, she is pulled over by a police officer and volunteers to be arrested in order to be spared. While held in the officers squad car, the killer runs over the officer and blows up the squad car by igniting the fuel tank with a candle. Waking up in Carters bed again, Tree convinces Carter of her predicament by showing that she holds foreknowledge of the days events. In Corkys, Tree admits to Carter that she does not like who she has become as she is distant from her father in the wake of her mothers death three years ago. Tree catches a local news report on John Tombs, a serial killer who is being held in the hospital on her campus. Concluding that Tombs is her killer, Tree rushes to the hospital to warn of his escape. Tombs breaks free and nearly kills Tree, but Carter follows and rescues her. Tombs snaps Carters neck before chasing Tree to a nearby bell tower where she manages to subdue him with a crowbar. Realizing that Carter will remain dead if she doesnt restart the loop, Tree hangs herself in the tower. During the next iteration, Tree sets out to be a kinder person by ending her affair with Dr. Butler and meeting with her father to resolve her inner grief. That night, she prepares to stop Tombs. He manages to get the upper hand on her until Tree utilizes a campus-wide blackout that occurs during the loop to disarm him and shoot him to death. Relieved to finally be free, she celebrates her birthday in Carters room and eats the cupcake given to her by Lori. However, the next morning Tree wakes up again on her birthday. Confused and distraught over the fact that killing Tombs did not stop the time loop, Tree returns to her room where Lori offers the cupcake again. Tree realizes that she had died in her sleep and also notes that this was the only time she had ever eaten the cupcake. Tree realizes that Lori is the true killer; Lori had poisoned the cupcake, but when Tree did not eat it, she utilized her job as a nurse in the hospital to frame Tombs for Trees murder. Tree tries to coerce Lori to have a bite and when Lori refuses, Tree decides to take it to the police. Lori attacks Tree, locks the door and confesses that she was jealous of her affair with Dr. Butler. Tree manages to stuff the cupcake into Loris mouth before kicking her out of a window, sending her falling to her death. Tree and Carter muse over the days events back in the restaurant. He offers her his room for the night, also commenting her situation is a lot like the film Groundhog Day. Tree wakes up the next day believing herself to be in another loop, but it turns out to be a prank by Carter. The two share a kiss.
Happy Death Day
2017