Chris Walters (David Niven) is a happily married father of two. For his 13th wedding anniversary, he sneaks home with a gift for wife Alice (Mitzi Gaynor), a diamond brooch, and with a desire to have a romantic interlude. Interruptions ensue. If it isnt their children, Debbie (Patty Duke) and Okkie (Kevin Coughlin), needing something, its their maid, Millie (Elizabeth Wilson), or its Alices mother Lilly (Phyllis Povah) on the phone. And then two delivery men arrive with a new television set. Its a gift from Alices parents, Lilly and Arthur (Loring Smith). Chris is not pleased. He hates television. He thinks the whole idea of TV is a needless distraction and corrupting influence on todays youth. At work, Chris has a partner, Bud (Carl Reiner), who is trying to woo a new client, Jeanette Revere (Monique Van Vooren), a woman who has been divorced four times. Jeanette is amazed in this day and age that a couple can remain happily married as long as the Walterses have. Over a celebration dinner, Chris lets it slip that he and Alice had sexual relations a year before they got married. Lilly and Arthur are offended, having been under the impression that Alice didnt have relations with Chris until they were wed. They storm out. Chris is so angry, he kicks in the screen of the new TV. He argues with Alice and has to spend his anniversary night sleeping on the sofa. A gift arrives from Bud—its another TV. Chris is irritated again but promises not to cause a scene this time. When they turn it on, however, a show called "Kids Kouncil" has his daughter Debbie as a guest. And the child blurts out for all to hear that her parents are having marital difficulties and had been intimate prior to their wedding. Chris again kicks in the TV. Chris storms out of the house this time. Meantime, Alices parents also have a quarrel, which eventually leads to Lilly attempting to move in with her daughter. Everybodys angry now. A distraught Chris wants to come home. Alice feels no one cares about her. She intends to leave home herself. The family doctor, however, suddenly informs Alice that she is pregnant. She decides to give Chris another chance ... as a gift arrives, yet another TV. This time it is from Chris.
Happy Anniversary (1959 film)
1959