Opening with the newspaper headlines "Scientists to Launch First Rocket to Moon" and "Heroic Rabbit Volunteers as First Passenger" the scene changes to Bugs literally being dragged on to the launching pad as he frantically protests, but becomes cooperative when he sees the rocket being loaded with carrots. The rocket then launches into space. Shocked by the sudden acceleration of the rocket, Bugs attempts to exit it, but when he opens the hatch, he sees that the rocket has already left Earth. When he lands on the moon he goes to pieces, but regains his composure. He contemplates the fact that he is the first living creature to set foot on the moon, as he passes behind a large rock on which the words "Kilroy was here" are written. Another rocket soon lands, called the Mars to Moon Expeditionary Force from the planet Mars, and from it emerges an unnamed Martian (later known as Marvin the Martian) set to blow up planet Earth using a Uranium PU-36 Explosive Space Modulator, a small device which resembles a mere stick of dynamite. Bugs is curious, but initially not concerned, until he realizes the severity of the situation and steals the Uranium PU-36. He shortly has to deal with Marvins Martian dog, named K-9, who retrieves it while Bugs is distracted attempting to send an SOS to Earth. In one of Bugs Bunnys classic word switcharoos, he successfully gets the Uranium PU-36 Explosive Space Modulator back. This prompts an angry Marvin to berate and scold his dog. Bugs quickly arrives disguised as a Martian with a "special delivery from Mars" and hands Marvin the Uranium PU-36 Explosive Space Modulator, now wired to a detonator. While Marvin is celebrating the return of the Uranium PU-36, Bugs activates the detonator. The explosion reduces the moon to a crescent. Bugs hangs precariously from the edge of it, with Marvin and the dog clinging to him and dangling below. Earth contacts Bugs Bunny, asking for a statement to the press. Bugs yells out (in his typical Brooklyn accent), "GET ME OUTTA HERE!"
Haredevil Hare
1948