Elmer Fudd has purchased Bugs Bunny at a local grocery store (with a sign visible in the window offering a special on "Fresh Hare") and is taking him home to make a meal. As he walks along, he sings the tune of "Shortnin Bread", substituting "Wabbit Stew". Bugs pops out of Elmers basket, munching on a carrot that was in there with him, and asks, "Eh, whatcha got in the basket, doc?" Elmer replies, "I got me a wabbit! Im gonna cook me a wabbit stew!" Bugs states his "love" of rabbit stew (though he is clearly a rabbit) and then begs to see Elmers rabbit. When Elmer opens his basket and finds it empty (Bugs had quickly climbed out), Bugs pushes his nemesis into his own basket and then sings the tune Elmer had been singing — but then Elmer realizes hes been tricked, and so he re-reverses the switch. Foreshadowing pranks to come, Bugs tells the audience from inside the basket (à la Red Skeltons "mean widdle kid"), "He dont know me vewy well, do he?" Once at home, Bugs easily secures his escape by distracting Elmer, tricking him into thinking the phone has rung. However, just as hes about to leave, he decides that the setups too easy and he just cant leave. He decides to stay and heckle his would-be devourer. Bugs effects a radio broadcast that warns of the dread disease "rabbititis", which is contracted from rabbits "sold within the last three days" and which causes people to see spots and have "delusions assuming the characteristics of rabbits", which is followed by the onset of schizophrenia and depersonalization disorder.This frightens the gullible Elmer and he informs Bugs that he is free to leave. Bugs, however, decides he doesnt want to leave by saying "Oh, no, Doc. Wouldnt think of it. Were gonna brew a stew, remember?", only to make Elmer back away, forcing him to hide on top of his door: "Oh no! Pwease, Mr. Wabbit! Go away! Dont come any cwoser! D-Dont come near me! NOOOOOOOOO!". Bugs, thinking he has B.O., sniffs his glove and tells the audience "Oh, goodness! Dont tell me I offend." just as Elmer pleads with Bugs to "Make twacks. Scuwwy away. SCWAM!" to which Bugs angrily replies as he leaves "OKAY! I CAN TAKE A HINT! I KNOW WHEN IM NOT WANTED! GOODBYE!". But when Bugs returns, Elmer reminds him that Bugs has to "scwam", but Bugs points to a sign on the door that states "QUARANTINED FOR RABBITITUS (RABBITITIS). NO ONE MAY LEAVE PREMISES."  Thus Bugs stays to torment Elmer, and many hijinks ensue, including Bugs posing as Elmers shower faucets {"Gurgle, gurgle. Why dont ya pay ya water bill, Doc?"} and a doctor ("Dr. Killpatient", parodying Dr. Kildare), painting a room with red, yellow and blue spots to make Elmer think he sees spots before his eyes and pretending to be Elmers reflection in the mirror (a scene inspired by the famous mirror scene in the Marx Brothers film, Duck Soup) and his own rabbity image reflected at him in a mirror thats really just Bugs after the glass has been removed. And when Dr. Killpatient (Bugs) tests Elmers reflexes, Elmer goes into a familiar Russian kick dance, and Bugs decides to join him in a busby hat and boots. Finally, Elmer sees Bugs game and chases him out of the house with a shotgun. But Bugs quickly halts the chase and, in an unusually lengthy breaking of the fourth wall, even by Bugs standards, he convinces Elmer that members of the audience are now afflicted with rabbititis by saying "Hey, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Look, the people out there in the audience - the lady there with the long ears. Theyre getting longer all the time. And the guy back there in the seventeenth row with the cute tomato - hes gettin all fuzzy. Yeah, theyve got it. Everybody out theres got rabbititis! Yaah!" which causes Elmer to flee back into his house in a terror of panic. Bugs then addresses the audience and says the whole thing was "just a gag, of course" and that if the audience really had rabbititis, theyd see swirling red and yellow spots, whereupon red and yellow spots are seen swirling on the screen, and the underscore starts to build dramatically. Immediately after Bugs says, "And then suddenly, everythingd go black!" the screen does suddenly go black, and the music stops abruptly and dramatically, followed by a second or two of dark silence. Bugs snickers and the cartoon ends.
Hare Tonic
1945