One evening on a sidewalk in Harlem, Jean Stratton (Anise Boyer)—a young unemployed actress and dancer from West Virginia—stands next to "The Tree of Hope", openly praying and imploring the legendary tree to help find her work. When she stops several passing men to ask how long she needs to stand under the tree to get a job, a nearby police officer thinks she is a soliciting prostitute, so he arrests her. A group of spectators gather around the officer and Jean, including "Money" Johnson (James Baskett), who gets the officer to release her. Money is a local theater owner widely known in Harlem. He is also a rackateer who specializes in "policy games" or gambling, as well as circulating phony investment schemes around New York, Philadelphia, and in other cities. After the officer and others leave, Money offers Jean a job at his Acme Theatre, gives her some cash as an advance on her salary, and tells her to report to his office the following day.  After meeting with Jean at his theater the next day, Money introduces her to Bill (Bill Robinson), Acmes star performer and director of its dance and other stage productions. At rehearsal Jean also meets another performer, a handsome young actor and dancer named "Chummy" Walker (Henri Wessell). Both Chummy and Bill are immediately smitten with Jean even though she initially refers to them as her protective "big brothers". Money, however, has his own plans to seduce her. Following another rehearsal, Money warns Chummy that "Miss Stratton" is more than his protégée, declaring "shes my personal and private property". He then orders Chummy to invite Jean to a party in his office after that evenings show. The party will actually be an intimate dinner with just Money. Chummy warns Jean of Moneys intentions, but she ignores him and goes to the office, where the theater boss forces himself on her. As she struggles to leave, Bill enters the office, a fight ensues, and Bill knocks out Money. The next day Bill and Jean learn they have been fired. Bill quickly gets a new job performing at a nearby nightclub owned by Knobs Moran (Bob Sawyer), Moneys bitter rival in both entertainment and crime. Money now seeks revenge, especially against Chummy for divulging his wanton plan to take advantage of Jean. Money therefore hatches another plan, one to get Chummy imprisoned. He enlists him as the front man in marketing a bogus new hair-straightening product. Money arranges the scam so he is not openly involved, while assuring Chummy that the new product is genuine and will earn huge profits for everyone. Initially successful selling the product, Chummy is soon arrested and jailed for fraud after all the investors lose their money, including Bills close friend John "Spider" Mason, who had committed most of his life savings to the enterprise.  While visiting the police station to see Chummy, Jean learns of Moneys role in devising the fraud, so she visits Greta (Alma Smith), one of Moneys girlfriends who knows details about the scheme. After a brutal fight with Greta, Jean forces her to provide the district attorney with information proving Moneys guilt, which results in Chummys release from jail. Spider then learns from newspaper reports that it was Money, not Chummy, who had concocted the phony investment. Now seeking his own revenge for the loss of his money, Spider confronts Money in his office. After Money tries to shoot him, Spider uses a razor to kill the crime boss as he pleads for mercy. The story then ends in Bills apartment, where Bill, his mother visiting from Richmond, Jean, and Chummy have gathered. Earlier, Bill had realized that Jean and Chummy had fallen in love, so he urges them to get married before he cheerfully leaves the apartment to see another friend.
Harlem Is Heaven
1932