In the near future, Harley Davidson (Mickey Rourke) travels from Texas to Burbank, California to reconnect with his old friend Robert "Marlboro Man" Anderson (Don Johnson) at their old haunt; Rock N Roll Bar & Grille. Their mutual friend Jack Daniels (Big John Studd) holds animosity towards Harley over an affair he and his now-wife Lulu (Vanessa Williams) had years prior. The bar has fallen on hard times, and the Great Trust bank has threatened foreclosure, planning to demolish the building to make way for a skyscraper. Harley and Robert convince Jack to help them rob one of the Banks armoured cars in order to collect the funds necessary to renew the buildings lease. The robbery most goes off without a hitch, but the trio are intercepted by a group of security agents who almost foil their getaway. Upon escaping, they discover the loot they stole from the van contains not money, but a new, experimental street drug called "Crystal Dream." The banks head of security Alexander (Daniel Baldwin) is ordered by CEO Chance Wilder (Tom Sizemore) to recover the stolen drugs and kill the thieves. Meanwhile, Robert is pulled over for speeding by a motorcycle cop; his ex-lover Virginia Slim (Chelsea Field). The two spend the night together, during which Robert learns that shes engaged. Harley takes Virginia to breakfast the next morning, during which she tells him that Crystal Dream is 100% addictive and causes lasting neurological damage and, eventually, death. Robert, fuming about Virginias upcoming marriage, steals her fiancés motorcycle. He and Harley go to the banks headquarters and talk to Wilder via telephone. They demand $2.5 million in exchange for the drugs. Wilder agrees to have someone meet them that night in the airplane graveyard for the exchange. Alexander shows up with the money and the transfer goes off without any problems. That night, while they hang out in the bars back room celebrating, Marlboro is suspicious of the ease of the exchange. Suddenly, Alexander and his men show up. Watching through a one-way mirror, the owner (Julius Harris) tries to convince them that the gang isnt there. Alexander appears to walk away as if to leave and suddenly turns around and shoots him. They open fire on the room behind the mirror; Harley and Marlboro are the only ones who escape alive as the others are cut down in brutal fashion. The two retreat to the nearby airport and hide in the baggage compartment of a plane. One of the agents nearly finds them but they escape to Las Vegas, where they check into a hotel, only to be tracked down by Alexander. The two escape to the hotels roof and jump off into the swimming pool. Harley finds out that theyve been tracked with a device hidden in the dollar coin given to them by Alexander. The two hop a freight train headed east after deactivating the tracker, but Marlboro leaves after telling Harley that they owe it to the dead friends that helped them to go back to LA and settle things. Harley refuses to go and Marlboro jumps off train. Harley has a change of heart, and catches up with Marlboro and they form a plan to meet with Alexander, reactivating the tracker in the coin. Alexander traces them to the airplane graveyard, finding the briefcase that contained the money but only finding the dollar coin inside. However, he sights Harley and Marlboro nearby and a gunfight ensues. Marlboro is able to kill both of Alexanders two remaining men, however, Alexander catches Marlboro and holds him hostage. Harley tries to shoot Alexander and misses, hitting Marlboro. Harley finally summons up the aim to hit Alexander and the two finally manage to kill him. The duo bribe Alexanders helicopter pilot into taking them to Wilders office. They give Wilder his money back and demand he change the lease on the bar. Wilder is unwilling to do so and orders his men to kill them when the pilot, paid off by Harley and Marlboro, appears hovering in his chopper outside. He opens fire on the office with the choppers cannon, killing Wilders thugs. Wilder insults Marlboros dead father; Marlboro begins to beat him up until Wilder dangles out the window of his office, holding onto Marlboros disintegrating cowboy boot. Harley helps him out, the boot comes apart and Wilder falls to the street. Marlboro and Harley part ways at a rodeo, where Marlboro is riding a bull. As Harley rides away, he picks up a beautiful hitchhiking woman.
Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man
1991