Stella Johnson is a beautiful widowed single mother who lives in the town of Harper Valley, Ohio. She sells cosmetics door-to-door for the fictitious AngelGlo Cosmetics and is not afraid to enjoy life. Her fourteen-year-old daughter, Dee, is a student at Harper Valley Junior High School. After leaving school, Dee brings her mother a letter from the schools Parent Teacher Association board, which is led by the pompous and snobbish Flora Simpson-Reilly. The letter denounces her for her not following the societal mores of the day and the community and further stating that if she does not change her ways more to the boards liking, Dee will be punished for her mothers "sins" by being expelled from school. Infuriated by the boards supposed superiority and their glaring hypocrisy, Stella storms to the PTA meeting being held that day, and proceeds to tell most of the PTA members off by exposing their hidden skeletons for the town to see. After her house is TPed (Toilet-Papered) and a rock with a vile note attached is thrown through her window in retaliation, Stella prepares to get even with those who would want her driven out of town. She teams up with her friends, beautician Alice Finley and bartender Herbie Maddox, and (along with Dees help) wreaks hilarious and justified revenge on six of the hypocritical PTA members, with methods including: (1) tricking a married male board member who has repeatedly tried to date Stella into a disastrous rendezvous, (2) embarrassing Mrs. Simpson-Reilly at one of her grand social gatherings, (3) exposing the secret antics of a supposedly prim-and-proper female board member/teacher, and (4) sending a herd of pink-painted elephants into the bedroom of an alcoholic board member. During the course of the movie, she finds out that one of the male PTA members, wealthy Willis Newton (who was not a party to the PTA letter), has fallen in love with her. Will and another male on the PTA board, Skeeter Duggan, the towns Notary public, are sympathetic to Stella and do not agree with Flora and her cronies. After being informed by Will of the current PTA Boards incompetence and mismanagement and with his help, Stella is convinced to make a run for President of the PTA, a move which infuriates Flora and her allies. After a makeover, which sees her braces removed and her hair styled, Dee also finds a boyfriend in handsome Carlyle, a popular school track star, which incurs the jealousy of Bettina Reilly, the equally snobbish granddaughter of Flora. Also shown are Edwina, Bettinas identical twin sister who is just as snobbish as Bettina, and Dees best friend Mavis. Real estate agent Kirby Baker, a member of the PTA Board, plans to ruin Stella by foreclosing on her house (which his company owns), but is arrested for assaulting Myrna Wong, an Asian-American martial arts expert helping Stella to set up the lecherous Baker. Now things become more and more desperate. The board finally decide to resort to criminal means to maintain the power they hold, which is fast slipping away thanks to Stellas growing popularity. The board members then decide to hire a couple of kidnappers named Dutch and Tex to have Skeeter abducted so they can commit election fraud. The kidnappers snatch Skeeter as he is taking the trash out and take him in a nearby abbey, where he is imprisoned and made drunk on wine. Olive Glover, the PTAs Recording Secretary who has a hardcore gambling addiction, has stolen money from the Milk Fund Rally, one of the PTAs numerous fund raisers, and intends to having Mavis framed for the crime and arrested. Leaving Dee to stall the PTA Board meeting, Stella and Alice follow Olive to a racing stable and recover the stolen money, some of which had been marked by Will. As Stella and Alice race back to town, Will and Herbie spot the kidnappers and Skeeter outside the abbey from a helicopter and notify the girls. Disguised as nuns, Stella and Alice find Skeeter, free him and manage to escape with him after a wild car chase ending with the kidnappers crashing into a stream. Ultimately, Floras scheme to prevent Stellas nomination fails miserably: Olive, who would have been the swing vote against Stella, is arrested for embezzlement just as the PTA Board is about to vote against Stellas candidacy. Dutch and Tex, already in custody for the Skeeter Duggan kidnapping, tell the police that Flora was behind it all to keep Stella off the PTA Board. Stella decisively wins the election and becomes the new PTA president, with the whole town voting to get rid of Flora and her snobbish friends. Will and Stella then fly off in his helicopter (which is trailing a sign saying "Stella Johnson for Mayor") to get married.
Harper Valley PTA (film)
1978