Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour addresses the wizarding media, and states that the Ministry will remain strong, even as Lord Voldemort gains strength. The Death Eaters have made major gains after Dumbledores death, committing mass killings of Muggles and infiltrating the Ministry itself. Harry, Ron, and Hermione set out to complete the mission Dumbledore gave Harry by hunting down and destroying Voldemorts Horcruxes. Meanwhile, Severus Snape informs Lord Voldemort and the Death Eaters of Harrys impending departure from Privet Drive. Voldemort commandeers Lucius Malfoys wand, as Voldemorts own wand cannot be used to kill Harry because they share the same core. The Order of the Phoenix gather and escort Harry to safety, using Polyjuice Potion to create decoy Harrys for the trip. During their flight they all are ambushed by Death Eaters who kill Mad-Eye Moody and Hedwig, injure George Weasley, and knock out Hagrid. After arriving at the Burrow, Harry has a vision of the wand-maker Ollivander being tortured by Voldemort. The next day Scrimgeour arrives at the Burrow with Albus Dumbledores will and distributes three items to Ron, Hermione, and Harry. Ron receives Dumbledores Deluminator, Hermione receives a copy of The Tales of Beedle the Bard, and Harry receives the first Golden Snitch that he ever caught in a Quidditch match. Scrimgeour reveals that Harry was also bequeathed the Sword of Godric Gryffindor. The minister tells Harry that the sword was not Dumbledores to bequeath, and in any case is missing. The Death Eaters kill Scrimgeour and replace him with Pius Thicknesse. The Ministry begins arresting and persecuting Muggle-born witches and wizards. Before the wedding of Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour, Harry Potter and Ginny Weasley kiss passionately until George interrupts them. At Bill and Fleurs wedding, however, Death Eaters attack. Kingsley Shacklebolts patronus charm forewarns the wedding party, and most escape. Harry, Hermione, and Ron disapparate to London, where they are attacked in a diner by Death Eaters. The trio are forced to seek refuge at 12 Grimmauld Place. While there, they discover that the "R.A.B." from the fake Horcrux locket is Regulus Arcturus Black, the younger brother of Sirius Black. Kreacher, the Blacks house elf, tells them that Mundungus Fletcher broke in and stole many items from the house including the real locket. Kreacher and Dobby apprehend Fletcher, who reveals that the locket is in the possession of Dolores Umbridge. Using Polyjuice Potion, the trio infiltrate the Ministry and find the locket around Umbridges neck. Harry stuns Umbridge and Hermione retrieves the locket. The trio escape from their pursuers by apparating in the wilderness but Ron is injured and cannot apparate again until he recovers. After several unsuccessful attempts to destroy the Horcrux, the trio take turns wearing it to dilute its power. Harry sees a vision of Voldemort interrogating and killing the wand-maker Gregorovitch, who claims that a teenage boy had once stolen the legendary Elder Wand from his shop. While Ron is wearing the locket, he is overcome by negative feelings and argues with Harry before leaving him and Hermione behind. Hermione deduces that the sword of Gryffindor can destroy Horcruxes and decides with Harry to go to Godrics Hollow. They visit Harrys parents graves and the house where they were killed. They encounter Bathilda Bagshot, who they believe may have the sword. Bathilda lets Harry and Hermione into her house, and is revealed to actually be Nagini, controlling Bathildas reanimated corpse from inside of her. Hermione and Harry escape into the Forest of Dean, but Hermione accidentally breaks Harrys wand whilst fighting Nagini. Hermione is then able to identify the mysterious thief seen in Harrys vision as Gellert Grindelwald. That evening Harry sees a Patronus in the form of a doe, which leads him to a frozen pond. Gryffindors sword lies beneath the ponds ice, which Harry breaks and jumps in to retrieve it. The locket around his neck attempts to strangle him, but Ron arrives just in time to rescue Harry. Harry uses parseltongue to open the locket, and Ron destroys the Horcrux with the sword. Hermione and Ron reconcile, and the trio decide to go and visit Xenophilius Lovegood to learn more about a symbol drawn in the book Dumbledore left Hermione. Lovegood explains to them that the symbol represents the Deathly Hallows, three magical objects that when combined make a wizard master of Death. Hermione reads the story of the Hallows from her book, and after some awkward conversation the trio try to leave but are stopped by Lovegood. He explains that Luna has been kidnapped before betraying them and summoning the Death Eaters. Harry, Ron, and Hermione disapparate as Lovegoods house is destroyed. Arriving back in the wilderness, the trio sets up camp when Snatchers find and chase them down. Hermione strikes Harry with a curse to disguise his features as the Snatchers take them all to Malfoy Manor. Bellatrix Lestrange imprisons Harry and Ron in the cellar with Luna, Ollivander, and Griphook the goblin. Bellatrix then tortures Hermione for information on how they got the sword of Gryffindor, which Bellatrix claims was in her vault at Gringotts. Harry requests help, communicating with a piece of broken mirror in his possession. Dobby apparates into the cellar to save them. Harry and Ron rush to save Hermione, and a battle ensues that sees Harry disarm Draco Malfoy. Dobby drops a chandelier above Bellatrix, forcing her to release Hermione. Bellatrix throws her knife at them as Dobby grabs everyone and disapparates. They arrive at Shell Cottage and find that Bellatrixs knife has fatally wounded Dobby. Harry insists that they bury Dobby properly without any magic, which they all agree to do. In the final scene, Voldemort breaks into Dumbledores tomb and steals the Elder Wand.
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
2011