American movie star Johnny Tyrone goes to the Middle East to premiere his new picture. He is seduced by the lovely Aishah, then kidnapped by a man named Sinan who wants Johnny to help him kill the king in the town of Bar Esalaam. Johnny escapes the palace with the help of a slave girl, Shalimar. Once out of the palace walls Johnny tells her that he was brought to the Middle-East to assassinate the king which causes Shalimar to run off in fear as she turns out to be the kings daughter. Johnny meets up with his fellow escapee Zacha and make a plan to foil the assassination plan by joining a troupe of musicians who will be going to entertain the people of Bar Esalam on the last day of Ramadan. Johnny successfully befriends the troupe but that night they are ambushed by Aishah and her men after being betrayed by Zacha. Aishah orders Johnny to go through with the assassination after threatening the lives of the musicians and their children. Meanwhile Princess Shalimar can not shake the feelings she has for Johnny. On the day of the festivities Johnny reluctantly moves in to kill the King but is thwarted by Shalimar. Johnny, the musicians and the kids are sentenced to death. The troupe is spared death after they are rescued by their associate, a dwarf named Baba. Johnny breaks into the Kings room and convinces him that he was blackmailed into the plot by Sinan and also confesses his love for Shalimar. The King believes Johnny and helps him infiltrate Sinans lair where it is revealed that the man who orchestrated the assassination plot was none other than the Kings brother Prince Dragna. Johnny manages to overpower Sinan but learns that his army has grown in number and taken the town by force. Johnny, The King, Shalimar, the musicians and the remorseful Zacha gather as many of the Kings most loyal servants to battle the assassins and take back the town while the King enters Dragnas hideout vowing revenge. However it is revealed that rather than kill Dragna he has chosen to banish him after besting him in a game of chess. Johnny asks the King not to banish him to the United States. With order restored, Johnny and his new royal bride honeymoon in Las Vegas, along with a few of her dancing girls.
Harum Scarum (film)
1965