Picking up immediately where the first film ended, Marybeth (Danielle Harris) is attacked by Victor Crowley (Kane Hodder), but manages to escape. Jack Cracker (John Carl Buechler) finds her, pulls her out of the river, and takes her back to his cabin. After finding out her last name, he forces her to leave, telling her that if she wants help, she needs to see Reverend Zombie (Tony Todd). Moments after she leaves, Jack views Shapiros camcorder, which he found in the swamp. The footage shows Shapiro filming different topless women, including Misty and Jenna. It also further reveals Shaprios plan to venture into the swamp. After Jack finishes watching the video, he is killed by Victor Crowley, who gouges his intestines out and strangles him with them until he decapitates him. Marybeth returns to Reverend Zombies shop and, after demanding to speak with him, he reluctantly lets her in. Its revealed that Rev. Zombie had a small business going on with Shawn, the tour guide who was murdered the night before, and the boat was one of his own. After learning her last name, he tells her that her father was one of the boys responsible for causing the fire that originally killed Victor Crowley. He also tells her that Thomas, Victors father, cheated on his wife Shyann with her nurse Lena after she was diagnosed with stomach cancer. Moments before dying, Shyann placed a curse on the child conceived by Lena from the affair. Months later, Lena died after giving birth to the deformed Victor Crowley. After Victor is killed by being hatcheted in the face, Thomas confronts the three boys responsible but due to his violent attitude with him brandishing and firing a shotgun, they, along with their parents, deny it. Thomas becomes a shut-in and eventually dies ten years later of a broken heart. The story is then complemented by various scenes in which the undead Victor slaughters the people who wander into his land. Marybeth tells Reverend Zombie she wants to go back and retrieve the remains of her father and brother. He agrees, but tells her she must bring a family member with her. After she leaves, Zombie calls Justin (Parry Shen), Shawns brother, and reveals Shawn never returned with the boat. He lies, saying they are going into the swamp to find Shawn and the boat. He tells Justin to summon a group of hunters, specifically a man named Trent Graves (R. A. Mihailoff) to go with them. Marybeth returns home, where her uncle, Bob (Tom Holland) promptly shows up. He tells her she must stay away from Reverend Zombie, but reluctantly agrees to accompany her to a recruitment meeting in Zombies shop. Zombie tells the hunters he will pay them $500 each to retrieve his boat and $5,000 for the head of Victor Crowley. He tells Trent he will pay him double to go, and Trent agrees. The hunters leave and go into the swamp with Marybeth and her uncle. They find the boat and, as the rest leave, two of the hunters, Cletus and Chad (Ed Ackerman and David Foy) stay by the boat while the others fan out. Marybeth, Zombie, Justin, Bob, and Trent look for Crowleys shed, as well as the bodies of his victims. Along the way, Zombie explains to Justin that Trent and Marybeths father and uncle were the kids who started the fire which killed Victor. He believes if Crowley kills Bob and Trent, his soul will be at peace and he will finally leave the swamp. After not finding the bodies in the shed, they check the main cabin. Meanwhile, the rest of the hunting party are systematically murdered by Victor. Chad is violently hacked in the face with Victors hatchet, and Cletus face is mutilated by a boat propeller. While Layton (AJ Bowen) and Avery (Alexis Peters) are having make-up sex, Victor appears and decapitates Layton. Avery tries to run away but Victor chops her between the legs and in the chest with his hatchet. Finally, John and Vernon (Rick McCallum and Colton Dunn) are simultaneously split in half from the groin-up with a long chainsaw. While searching the cabin, the remaining party members hear Victor outside. As they hide, Justin tells Marybeth of Zombies plot to get her uncle and Trent killed after Marybeth tells Justin that Shawn is dead. She runs to warn Bob. Then, Justin jams the door shut with a chair. Justin hides, but Victor appears behind Justin and kills him by wearing half his head away with a belt sander. Bob, in an attempt to save Justin, accidentally releases Victor. Marybeth attempts to attack him, but is tossed against the wall. Victor then spears Trent against the wall and the two stumble into the kitchen where an epic battle ensues. Victor makes use of his strength while Trent uses the nearby surroundings to his advantage, temporarily pinning Crowley against a support. He beats Victor with tables and chairs, but Trent is ultimately killed while attempting to kill Victor with a cleaver, as Victor breaks Trents leg, then severs the top half of his head by kicking it against a table. Meanwhile, Zombie grabs Marybeth and drags her out of the house, trapping Bob inside with Victor. Zombie restrains Marybeth while she screams as she hears Bob being murdered by Victor inside. She falls to the ground in tears, and Zombie declares, "Thats it. All over," and claims Victor Crowley is dead. Marybeth tells Zombie she will go to the police with his crimes, but he holds her at gunpoint. Marybeth then reveals that Bob was not her real uncle; her fathers brother had died of leukemia when she was twelve, Bob was her fathers best friend. Zombie turns to see Victor breaking through the wall of the cabin, now realizing his plan to kill Victor Crowley has failed. Zombie advances towards Victor and chokes him, but Victor kills him by severing him in half and then grasps his severed spine, steps on his back, and slides him out of his skin, effectively skinning him alive. Just after Victor tosses Zombies skinned upper body into the woods to die, Marybeth strikes him in the forehead with his own hatchet, knocking him to the ground. She then hysterically beats his head into a bloody pulp. She eventually stops and walks off just as Victors hand twitches. She then returns with Zombies shotgun and fires the gun into the remains of his head, seemingly killing him.
Hatchet II
2013