Bill Allen (William Gargan) and his friend, Mike (Wallace Ford) are newsreel photographers who have a friendly rivalry, each willing to do whatever it takes to get the better footage of a story. When covering a beauty contest, Bill plans to rig the results by bribing the judges, thus enabling him to get the scoop on his rival cameramen, and already have pictures of the winner. While covering the event, he meets a reporter, Jane Mallory (Frances Dee), who is a straight arrow, in contrast to the loose women that Bill seems to attract. A professional rivalry simmers between the two, and when they both cover an earthquake in California, Bill begins to fall for Jane. Jane rebuffs his advances, letting Bill know that she has a fiancé down in Mississippi, a banker by the name of Hal Caldwell (Ralph Bellamy). As time goes by, they continue to run into each other. Eventually, Jane begins to reciprocate Bills affection, but his reputation as a womanizer makes her continue to resist. At one point, Bill is trying to get her to break off her engagement to Hal, and marry him instead, and just as she begins to weaken, he hears of a huge fire back in New York, and rushes off, leaving her in the lurch. After he leaves, Jane sends word to her boss that she is quitting, and heads down to Mississippi to marry Hal. At the fire, he meets up with his friend Mike, but the meeting ends tragically, when Mike is killed in the fire, attempting to get the perfect shot. Disconsolate over losing both his girl and his best friend, he intends to resign his job, until his boss sends him down to Mississippi to cover the failure of a levee, which has led to massive flooding. While covering the flood, Bill uncovers the corruption which led to the faulty construction of the levee, resulting in the levees failure. He also begins to win back the affection of Jane. He heads back to New York with the footage. When Jane and Hal realize that a friend of theirs, Judge Beacon (Henry Walthall), is the father-in-law of the person responsible for the corruption, they rush off to New York, where they attempt to get Bill to destroy the evidence implicating their friend. He doesnt, and when the newsreel comes out, the Judge commits suicide in disgrace. Jane resolves to return to Mississippi with Hal, but she cant resist covering one more story, that of taking the confession of a gangsters moll. When the story is published, Jane is kidnapped by the gangster. Bill realizes his own contact in the crime world, Ricci (Jack LaRue), will know where they have taken, and dupes Ricci into revealing where she is being held. Bill and Hal rush to her rescue, arriving at the same time as the police. Ever the newsman, during the ensuing siege and shootout, Bill manages to get some excellent footage for the newsreels. Jane realizes that she is truly in love with Bill, and agrees to marry him, which is caught by the newsreel cameras. Hal returns to his very staid life in Mississippi.
Headline Shooter
1933