Head begins at the dedication of the Gerald Desmond Bridge. As a local politician struggles with his microphone during the dedication speech, The Monkees (Micky Dolenz, Davy Jones, Peter Tork, and Michael Nesmith) suddenly interrupt the ceremony by running through the assembled officials to the sound of various horns and sirens. Micky then jumps off the bridge into the water below. He floats around, unconscious, as several mermaids attempt to revive him. The scene then transitions into a living room, in which the Monkees are having a kissing contest with a young woman (who finds them average). Then the opening song plays, filling the screen with images from the film, and ending with the Execution of Nguyễn Văn Lém followed by a woman screaming. However, the woman is not screaming in terror but in excitement, as the Monkees are about to take the stage at a concert. When the Monkees arrive, they lead the audience in a cheer of "WAR!" and the movie transitions into a war vignette. Several more vignettes follow, interspersed with stock footage and other film clips, as well as the four Monkees interacting with people on film stages and on the lot. As the movie meanders along, each Monkee takes a turn in the spotlight, experiencing confusion and dissatisfaction with their situation. They repeatedly find themselves trapped in some form of enclosure, from a vacuum cleaner to a large black box (which Micky says represents their universe). When trapped, they are alone and spend their time trying to find a way out; each time they escape they have little control over the situations they find themselves in. Any initiative they do take is invariably short-lived. Eventually Peter discovers a swami he believes to have "the answer", but when Peter tries to share this with the rest of the group, they initially ignore him. When they finally decide to listen, Davy becomes enraged with Peters conclusion that, "I know nothing." Davy then goes on a rampage through the studio and the lot, eventually landing the group back inside the black box, which is then flown out to the desert. There they are released, only to face all their antagonists from the film. The Monkees flee on foot, ending up at the bridge dedication shown at the beginning of the film. This time, we see all four Monkees jump from the bridge, still pursued by their enemies. As each Monkee lands in the water below, they begin to swim away. However, they soon discover that they are actually inside an aquarium on the back of a truck. The movie ends with the truck driving away, the Monkees still trapped in the glass box.
Head (film)
1968