Gunnery Sergeant Thomas Highway is nearing mandatory retirement from the Marine Corps. He finagles a transfer back to his old unit, the Second Marine Division. On the bus trip to his new assignment, he meets fellow passenger "Stitch" Jones, a wannabe rock musician who borrows money from Highway for a meal at a rest stop and then steals his bus ticket, leaving him stranded. When Highway finally arrives at the base, more bad news awaits. His new Operations Officer, Major Malcolm Powers, is an Annapolis graduate who transferred over from Supply and has not had "the privilege of combat." He sees Highway as an anachronism, and assigns him to shape up the Reconnaissance Platoon. "Recon" is made up of undisciplined Marines who had been allowed to slack off by their previous platoon sergeant, an old veteran who was just about to retire. Among his new charges, Highway finds Corporal Jones. Highway quickly takes charge and starts the men on a rigorous training program. They make a last-ditch attempt to intimidate him with "Swede" Johanson, a heavily muscled Marine just released from the brig, but their plan fails after Highway easily defeats Swede. They begin to shape up and develop esprit de corps. Highway repeatedly clashes with Powers and Staff Sergeant Webster over his unorthodox training methods (such as firing an AK-47 over his mens heads to familiarize them with the weapons distinctive sound). Powers makes it clear that he views Highways platoon as only a training tool for his own elite outfit. Major Powers goes so far as to make the Recon platoon lose in every field exercise. However, Highway is supported by his old comrade-in-arms, Sergeant Major Choozhoo, and his nominal superior officer, the college-educated but inexperienced Lieutenant Ring. After Highways men learn that he had been awarded the Medal of Honor in the Korean War, they gain respect for him and close ranks against their perceived common enemy. Highways ex-wife, Aggie, is working as a waitress in a local bar and dating the owner, Roy. Highway attempts to adapt his way of thinking to win Aggie back, even resorting to reading womens magazines to gain insights into the female mind. Initially, Aggie is bitter over their failed marriage, but tentatively reconciles with Highway. Then the 22nd Marine Amphibious Unit is deployed for the invasion of Grenada. After a last-minute briefing in the hangar bay of the amphibious assault ship USS Iwo Jima (LPH-2), Highways platoon mounts their UH-1 Huey, and are dropped by helocast into the water in advance of the rest of the Battalion Landing Team. While advancing inland, they come under heavy fire. Highway improvises, ordering Jones to use a bulldozer to provide cover so they can advance and destroy an enemy machine gun nest. They subsequently rescue American students from a medical school. Later, when they are trapped in a building by enemy forces, the radioman is killed and his radio destroyed, cutting them off from direct communication. Lieutenant Ring shows initiative and comes up with the idea of using a telephone to make a long distance call to Camp Lejeune and call in air support. After getting out of the jam on the hilltop, despite Powers explicit orders to the contrary, Lieutenant Ring, Gunny Highway, and the Recon Platoon take out a key enemy position and capture the Cuban soldiers manning it. When Major Powers learns this, he bawls Ring and Highway out and threatens Highway with a court-martial, but their commanding officer, Colonel Meyers, arrives and reprimands Powers for discouraging the mens fighting spirit, calling Powers "a walking clusterfuck as an infantry officer." When Highway and his men return to the U.S., they are met by a warm reception, complete with an honor guard and the division band. To Highways mock dismay, Stitch Jones informs him that he is going to re-enlist and make a career in the Marine Corps, while Highway confides to Jones he is taking mandatory retirement. Aggie is there to welcome him back, and the two of them walk off together.
Heartbreak Ridge
1986