The film begins at Pete and Dollys, a small roadside diner/tavern in sleepy upstate New York, where thirty-something Victor (Pruitt Taylor Vince) is a cook employed by his mother, Dolly (Shelley Winters), the owner of the restaurant. Dolly spends most of her time sitting in a chair in the back of the kitchen, reminiscing about her late husband and antagonizing waitress Delores (Deborah Harry), a lonely woman who has worked at the restaurant for fifteen years, and also had a meaningless affair with Dollys husband. The routine and rhythm of the restaurant is changed when Dolly hires a new waitress, Callie (Liv Tyler). She is sweet and soft-spoken, and a college drop out. She catches the eye of the painfully shy, overweight Victor. Callies presence complicates the lives of the rest of the employees, and even some of the local regulars, such as Leo (Joe Grifasi), an alcoholic friend of Delores and long-time customer of Dollys. Throughout the film, Victor, who is so shy he can hardly communicate with Callie, develops a crush on her, despite her already having a boyfriend. Callie, impressed by Victors cooking, suggests he attend the "fancy" cooking school across the river -- the Culinary Institute of America --a thought which is considered by Victor but dismissed by both his mother and Delores. Victor subtly vies for Callies attention, but her feelings for him are of a platonic nature. Nonetheless, she finds companionship in him. Meanwhile, Dolly depends on Victor greatly, as he still lives at home with her and takes care of the household work and shopping. Eventually Dollys health begins to decline, and she is hospitalized after suffering a heart attack. After several weeks, when Callie demands to see Dolly, Victor takes her to the local cemetery where Dolly has been buried. Victor had not told anyone at the restaurant of his mothers death, fearing that it would "change things." Callie breaks down crying, and doesnt return for her following shift at the restaurant. Victors issues of self-esteem, stemming from his weight and the revelation of his mothers death come to surface several nights later at the restaurant, when Callie arrives after closing to collect her check and say goodbye. He asks for her to come and visit occasionally and she agrees—she plans on going back home and returning to college. The film ends with a slightly more confident Victor at the local grocery mart, chatting with a female cashier who appeared throughout the film.
Heavy (film)
1995