Due to an error in Heaven, Adam "Duke" Byron, is born without a soul in 1858. The "Book of Destiny" shows that he was supposed to marry a ministers daughter in 1885, two years prior to the present, and set a fine moral example. Instead, he is a saloon keeper and gambling hall owner in Glacier, Montana. As it was the fault of his department, Michael is sent to set Duke on the life path for which he was destined, but Michael must do so as a human being, without miracles, not even a small one. Michael encounters Bill Plummer. Plummer and Duke are rival saloon keepers and partners in a mining company, but due to a dispute between them, the mine is closed, leaving many of the townspeople destitute. Plummer has hired the Kansas City Kid, a gunslinger, to kill Duke. When Bill finds out that Duke knows about his plan, he gives Michael a lift into town and as Plummer had hoped, Duke mistakes Michael for the Kid. Dukes henchman, Treason, takes a shot at Michael, narrowly missing a young girl. Furious, parsons daughter and schoolmarm Drusilla Wainwright goes into the "Copper Queen", Dukes saloon, and slaps him. Drusilla and most of the other residents want to take the law into their own hands to take back their town, but Sheriff Matt Bodine talks them into waiting until Plummer and Dukes men kill each other first. Michael accidentally foils the Kids attempt to shoot Duke. Duke is convinced he has switched sides, but when he learns that the now-dead would-be assassin is actually the Kansas City Kid, he believes that Michael is a smart, ambitious outlaw, so he hires him. Ginger, Dukes girlfriend and showgirl, takes a great liking to Michael, but Treason hates him on sight. Plummer sets fire to Dukes saloon, trapping him inside, with Plummers men waiting for him to come out. Dukes secret passageway is locked from the outside, but Michael opens it and rescues him. They take refuge in the school. While they wait for darkness, they start talking to Drusilla. Duke admits that he feels that he is "meant for something ... something big, something important", not what he is doing now, but he does not know what it is. Before he leaves, Duke kisses Drusilla; she resists at first, but not for long. In retaliation, Treason sets fire to Plummers saloon, but a sickly child Duke likes, Speck ODonnell, is trapped inside. Michael goes in after him, and Duke follows. Duke sends Michael out, then rescues Speck. Sheriff Bodine maneuvers Duke and Plummer into a showdown for sole ownership of the mine. Duke accepts the challenge, even though he is at a great disadvantage against skilled gunman Plummer. Duke is wounded, but Plummer is blinded by sunlight, perhaps by divine intervention, and Duke manages to kill him with his last shot. With Plummer dead, vigilantes plot to lynch Duke. Drusilla persuades Duke to flee rather than shoot it out, but he insists he will only go if she comes with him. She agrees. Once they are safely away, however, she refuses to marry him and returns to town. Thwarted, the mob decide to lynch Michael instead. At the last minute, Duke rides back to save Mikes life and reform. Mike rides off on a special coach to Heaven, taking Speck with him. Specks tearful mother somehow knows her childs fate.
Heaven Only Knows (film)
1947