Doris Miller is a shy, eccentric 60-something woman, living alone following the death of her mother, whom she has lived with for her whole life. At the funeral, her brother Todd and his wife Cynthia try to persuade her to sell the house, especially the possessions, as she is a hoarder. Her only close friend is the fiery Roz, though she also gets along with Rozs granddaughter Vivian. On her way to work, where she has been doing data entry for decades, she meets new young co-worker John, with whom she is immediately infatuated. Empowered by self-improvement tapes, Doris decides to go after him. Doris finds ways to get Johns attention; the attempts are frequently combined with daydream fantasies about a passionate love affair between them. With the help of Vivian, Doris creates a fake social media profile in order to find information about John, and discovers that he loves an electropop band that is planning an upcoming concert in the area. Doris buys a CD for the band, which gets Johns attention, and attends the concert, where she meets him and they spend time together. The band is intrigued by Doris and invite her backstage, where they spend a fun evening meeting young artists in the area. John tells Doris that he and his girlfriend recently broke up over text, and asks her about her love life. She reveals that she was engaged in the past, but had to end it in order to take care of her mother. John gives her a friendly kiss goodnight, and Doris is in love. John is distracted for the next week, and Doris discovers that he has a girlfriend, Brooklyn. Though Brooklyn is friendly and welcoming to her, Doris is devastated. She spends the night drinking wine, and in a drunken fit of anguish, she posts a comment on Johns social media wall while using her fake profile, posing as a scorned young woman with whom he had a torrid love affair. The next morning, Todd arrives with Doris therapist, planning on decluttering her house, but when Cynthia tries to throw out a pencil Doris stole from John, Doris angrily throws them out of her house. At work, Brooklyn arrives and has a fight with John before breaking up with him. Brooklyn later tells Doris that she had seen the comment on his wall and accused him of cheating on her, and she admits that she was cheated on in the past. After work, John tells Doris about the incident and invites her to his Thanksgiving for friends. She agrees, and when he asks her if she would ever be interested in dating a younger man, she is elated at this indication he is interested in her. She dresses up and goes to the Thanksgiving party where she meets Johns uncle, who is clearly interested in her. During the party, she asks to talk to John in his bedroom. While trying to come onto him, Doris reveals that she has always liked him and that she posted the comment that caused Brooklyn to break up with him. Furious, John rebuffs her. When a flustered Doris asks him what he meant by asking her if she was interested in younger men, John clarifies that he trying to set her up with his uncle, who is a decade younger than Doris. Doris leaves, deeply hurt, and invites Roz over for comfort. Doris invites her therapist over again to declutter her house, and she succeeds getting it cleaned up. She quits her job, and says good-bye to John before she leaves. She has another fantasy where John kisses her and proposes that they should be together; in reality, she enters the elevator to leave, alone. After hesitating, John calls out her name and runs toward the elevator. The doors close.
Hello, My Name Is Doris
2016