"Joe Yately" (Stanley Baker), whom everyone calls "Tom", has just been released from prison and is determined to start a new life. Tom arrives at Hawletts, a contractor which transports loads of gravel (“ballast”) from a nearby quarry, and tells gatekeeper Harry that he is looking for work. Harry lets him in and sends him to Mr. Cartley, the manager. Tom tells Lucy (Cartleys secretary) that he met "Leggy" Legubin, a former Hawletts driver who had an accident resulting in a plate in his skull and told Tom that Hawletts paid its drivers well. Legubins accident made Tom think there was a job available. Lucy recommends him to Cartley, who hires him for a trial run. Cartley tells Tom that his drivers transport their 10-ton loads fast, over bad roads. Speeding tickets and repairs are covered by the drivers. Hawletts has a bonus system in which the drivers receive seven shillings a load and four shillings an hour, with an additional weekly bonus for the cleanest truck. They are expected to deliver a minimum of twelve loads a day; if a driver falls behind, he is fired. Each run is 20 miles (32 km) round-trip; according to Cartley, one driver makes eighteen runs a day. Tom goes on a trial run with Ed, the mechanic, who is impressed with his driving skill but appears noncommittal. During the trial run, the brakes on his faulty truck, # 13, temporarily go out. Cartley hires him. Tom is accepted by all the other drivers except Red (Patrick McGoohan), an Irish foreman and head driver who is a violent bully. Tom befriends Gino (Herbert Lom), an Italian driver who is in love with Lucy. Red offers a £250 gold cigarette case to any driver who can make more runs than he does in a day, and Tom is determined to try. However, he learns that Red has kept his place at the top by taking a very risky short cut through a quarry which none of the other drivers will do. One evening, the drivers go to a dance at a nearby hall and start a fight. When the police are called Tom flees the scene, fearful that his criminal record will return him to prison. Red calls Tom a coward and the other drivers (except Gino) turn on him, bullying him incessantly. Lucy and Tom are attracted to each other, but Tom hesitates out of loyalty to Gino. The other drivers continue picking on him but, determined to escape his criminal past, he does not fight back. Tom learns that Cartley and Red have been scamming money by hiring fewer drivers than the budget allows and pocketing the difference, forcing the drivers to haul extra loads at high speed. Tom confronts Red and defeats him in a fistfight. Gino offers to switch truck numbers with Tom the next day, so that the others can harass him instead of Tom for a change, to help Tom to win the gold cigarette case. That night, Lucy breaks up with Gino, who has asked her to marry him and learns that she loves Tom. Despite his heartbreak, Gino switches numbers as arranged and uses Toms number 13 the next day, without realising that Tom has left and is about to catch a train for London and go back to his life of crime. Whilst waiting for his train, Lucy rushes into the waiting room and tells him that Gino has been seriously injured in a crash. Distraught, they rush to his hospital bedside where he is dying. He tells Tom, "I threw them off like we planned, for you to win. Crazy. You dont even come." Tom asks him if it was Red, and with his dying breath, Gino tries to say "Red." Tom returns to the depot and confronts Cartley. He tells him that Gino has died and he knows why, and that he knows about the scam. Cartley offers Tom a deal whereby they can share the extra money, and Tom can take Reds place in Truck 1. Tom is having none of it, but jumps into Truck 1 anyway and drives off. When Red turns up he forces Cartley to join him in Toms faulty truck # 13, disguised at truck # 3, and they give chase. Red correctly guesses that Tom will take the dangerous short cut through the quarry, and they lie in wait there in order to catch Tom on his return journey. When Tom appears with his truck full of ballast, Red gives chase and side swipes Toms truck many times, finally forcing it off the road and onto the edge of the quarry where it dangles precariously, with Tom unconscious inside. But now the brakes on Reds truck (# 13) fail, he loses control, goes over the side and he and Cartley are killed when it explodes in a fireball. Tom wakes up and escapes, just in time before his own truck tumbles down into the quarry, and Lucy (who followed them in a Hawletts jeep) runs to him.
Hell Drivers (film)
1957