In 1957, seventeen-year-old Mary Lou Maloney enters a church, where she confesses her sins to the priest, claiming to have disobeyed her parents, used the Lords name in vain and had sinful relations with various boys. The pastor tells her that "these are great sins and she should prepare herself for the consequences." Before leaving, Mary Lou tells the priest that she loved every minute of it and leaves her phone number in the confession booth along with a written message: "For a good time call Mary Lou." Later, at the 1957 prom at Hamilton High School, Mary Lou is attending with Billy Nordham who gives her a ring with her initials on it. Shortly after receiving Billys ring, Mary Lou sends him off to get punch while she sneaks backstage with Buddy Cooper, where the two are found making out by Billy. Storming off after Mary Lou claims she used him, Billy overhears two boys preparing a stink bomb and, when the boys abandon the bomb in the trash due to a teacher approaching, Billy grabs it. When Mary Lou is crowned prom queen, Billy, having snuck up onto the catwalk, drops the bomb on her before she is crowned. To the horror of Billy and everyone in attendance, the fuse of the bomb ignites Mary Lous dress and she burns to death onstage. Thirty years later, student Vicki Carpenter goes looking for a prom dress in the school prop room after being denied a new dress by her overly religious mother. While searching, Vicki finds an old trunk containing Mary Lous prom queen accessories and takes them, releasing Mary Lous Hell-bound spirit. After Vicki leaves Mary Lous clothes in the art room after school, Vickis friend Jess finds them and, after wedging a jewel out of the crown, is attacked by an unseen force and hung from a light by Mary Lous cape. Jesss death is deemed a suicide caused by her despair over her recent discovery that she was pregnant. After Jesss death, Vicki finds herself plagued by nightmarish hallucinations and confides in Buddy, who is now a priest and, after hearing Vickis stories, believes Mary Lou may be back. Going to Mary Lous grave, where his bible bursts into flames, Buddy afterwards tries to warn Billy, who is now the principal of Hamilton High and the father of Vickis boyfriend Craig. During a detention caused by her slapping her rival Kelly Hennenlotter, Vicki is dragged into the classroom chalkboard, which turns to liquid. Taking control of Vickis body, Mary Lou visits Buddy at the church and, revealing her identity to him, kills him by stabbing him in the face with a crucifix. Disposing of Buddys corpse, Mary Lou makes over Vickis body, and her new mannerisms and style of dress arouse the concern of Vickis friend Monica. After confronting Mary Lou in the girls locker room, Monica is murdered by Mary Lou when, after hiding from Mary Lou in a locker, she is crushed when Mary Lou makes the locker collapse in on her. After Monicas murder, Mary Lou seduces Craig and lures him away under the pretense of having sex, only to knock him unconscious and afterward confront and taunt Billy, revealing her identity to him. Finding the injured Craig, Billy takes him home and knocks him back out when Craig tries to go after Mary Lou. With Craig unconscious, Billy digs up Mary Lous grave and finds the dead Buddy in the coffin. At Vickis house, Mary Lou seduces Vickis father Walt and is found kissing him by her mother Virginia, who tries to stop Mary Lou/Vicki from leaving for the prom, only to be telekinetically smashed through the front door. Arriving at the prom, Mary Lou enjoys the festivities while Kelly, in order to become prom queen, fellates tally counter Josh as a bribe. When Josh changes the outcome of the votes to make Kelly the winner, Mary Lou electrocutes Josh through his computer and changes the outcome. When she is crowned prom queen, Mary Lou goes up on stage, but is shot moments before getting her crown by Billy. Arriving after the shooting, Craig, reaching what appears to be the dying Vicki, is knocked back when Vicki changes into a charred corpse and then into Mary Lou. In the havoc, Kelly is killed by a falling light fixture and Craig is chased into the school prop room by Mary Lou, who opens a vortex to the Underworld that begins to suck Craig in. Before Craig is pulled through the gateway, Billy arrives and places the crown on Mary Lou and kisses her, apparently appeasing her spirit, which vanishes, releasing Vicki. With Mary Lou gone, Vicki and Craig leave with Billy, getting into his car. When Billy turns on the radio, Mary Lous signature song "Hello Mary Lou" plays and Billy, revealing he is wearing Mary Lous ring (apparently as revenge for killing her in the first place thirty years ago, Mary Lou had possessed him, making him her new host), drives off with the terrified Vicki and Craig.
Hello Mary Lou: Prom Night II
1987