An eastern cult (a parody of the Thuggee cult) is about to sacrifice a woman to the goddess Kaili. Just as she is about to be killed, the high priestess of the cult, Ahme, notices that she is not wearing the sacrificial ring. Ringo Starr, drummer of the Beatles, has the ring and is wearing it; it was secretly sent to him by the victim in a fan letter. Determined to retrieve the ring and sacrifice the woman, the great Swami Clang, Ahme, and several cult members including Bhuta, leave for London. After several failed attempts to steal the ring, they confront the Beatles in an Indian restaurant. Ringo learns that if he does not return the ring soon, he will become the next sacrifice. Ringo then discovers that the ring is stuck on his finger. The Beatles go to a jeweller to remove the ring, but the tools he uses all break. They then go to a mad scientist, Foot, and his assistant Algernon. In a lab full of American-made equipment, they attempt to expand the rings molecules so it can slide off Ringos finger. But the machines only manage to remove all his other rings. Astonished that his equipment has no effect on the ring, Foot decides that he, too, must have it. While they bumble with trying to get a laser together, Ahme crashes the lab and holds the scientists at gunpoint while she lets the Beatles escape. Back home, Ahme tells the group that her sisters time has passed and she is now out of danger and Ringo is now the sacrificial victim. She prepares a special solution intended to shrink Ringos finger so she can get the ring off. But then Clang and his henchmen crash the house, causing Ahme to drop the syringe on Pauls leg. While a shrunken Paul hides in an ashtray, the cult attack the other Beatles and pour red paint on Ringo (as part of the sacrifice). Foot and Algernon come in, shoots a warning shot with his Webley and scares the cult away, Ahme in tow. Paul unshrinks and John subsequently starts to swing a lamp at Foot who tries to shoot him, but his gun misfires. Blaming this on the fact that the gun is British made, Foot retreats. The boys are left to sort things out. The band flees to the Austrian Alps for refuge but both thugs and Foot follow in pursuit. The Beatles practise skiing, then participate in a game of curling. Foot and Algernon booby-trap one of the curling stones with a bomb; George sees the "fiendish thingy" and tells everyone to run. The bomb eventually goes off after a delay, creating a big hole in the ice from which a Channel swimmer (Mal Evans) emerges and asks directions to the White Cliffs of Dover. The boys ski down a slope fleeing from Clang, directed by Ahme, who then misdirects Clang to the take-off ramp for a Ski jumping contest. Clang is the winner, and is forced to the winners platform to receive a gold medal. The group escapes back to England and they ask for "protection" from Scotland Yard; and get it in the form of a cowardly Inspector (Cargill). After being attacked while recording in the middle of Salisbury Plain surrounded by the British Army, they hide in "A Well Known Palace" (Buckingham Palace) until they are almost captured by Foot. While on a walk with the police, the group step into a small pub, where Clang is disguised as a barman. After being served beer, Ringo cannot pick his glass up from the table, so George tips it over, unknowingly opening a trapdoor to the cellar that Clang set up, into which Ringo drops. Inside the cellar is a door with a broken knob, a broken ladder and a tiger. They go summon the Inspector who tells them to sing the "Ode to Joy" from Beethovens 9th Symphony to the tiger in order to tame it; everyone inside and outside the pub joins in. The Beatles put out in the press that theyre going to the Bahamas to throw the cult off their scent, but Ringo wants to go there anyway. The Beatles arrive, followed by Scotland Yard officers, Foot and Clang. After Ringo is nearly captured, the other Beatles pose as him in order to lure the cult members, who are then arrested by the Bahamas Police. Despite their best efforts, Ringo is captured by Foot, who takes him on to a ship intending to cut off his finger to get the ring. Ahme rescues Ringo from Foot by exchanging him for a vial of the "distilled essence of certain orchids". The two try to escape the ship by jumping into the water; however, Ringo cannot swim. They are captured by the cult and tied down on the beach where they are surrounded by two battalions of Kukhri Rifles. Clang begins the ceremony to sacrifice Ringo, with cult members prepared to attack the rest of the Beatles and police when they come to the rescue. Ringo and Ahme manage to untie themselves, and the ring slips off his finger as he tries to wave to his band mates to warn them away. He puts the ring on Clangs hand, and Ahme declares Clang as the next sacrifice. A final brawl ensues between the Beatles, the cult, and the police. Clang manages to get the ring off himself and gives it to Foot and Algernon. They, however, leave the ring in the sand in favour of the shrinking solution. The ring ends up on the greedy Bhutas finger and he becomes the target for sacrifice to the put-upon Clangs obvious glee; meanwhile, the Channel swimmer reappears on the beach and once again asks for directions to the White Cliffs of Dover. The movie ends with a dedication to "Elias Howe, who, in 1846, invented the sewing machine". The credits feature the characters acting up in front of the camera, with the jewel of the ring being placed in front of the lens. The music playing during the credits is the Overture of The Barber of Seville by Gioachino Rossini, with The Beatles adding their own laughing and comments.
Help! (film)
1965