The film opens with naval scenes and a chorus of WAVES singing ‘The Navy Song’ on stage, and continues with a sister act, the Allison Twins (both played by Betty Hutton), singing the same song in a night club. Identical, except that one is blonde the other brunette, they are temperamentally very different. Susie, the blonde, is brash and scatter-brained, while Rosemary is serious and reliable. They leave their night club job to join the WAVES although Susie is extremely reluctant to do so. She is infatuated with popular singer Johnny Cabot (played by Bing Crosby) and fears that by joining the service she will never be able to meet him. Taking her collection of his records with her, however, she locks herself in the barracks washroom and plays Johnny’s record of ‘Moonlight Becomes You’. The twins attend a show in which Johnny is starring and on-stage he sings ‘That Old Black Magic’. Back stage he finds an old friend, Windy Smith (Sonny Tufts), who has joined the Navy and Johnny explains that his own application has been refused because he is colour-blind. Together they visit the ‘21 Club’ and Windy meets the twins, whom he already knows, and introduces Johnny. Both men are attracted to Rosemary while Susie becomes even more infatuated with Johnny. Johnny is eventually accepted into the Navy and begins his training hoping for assignment to the ‘U.S.S. Douglas’, the ship on which his father had served with distinction, when its re-fitting has been completed. Rosemary is contemptuous of Johnny’s popularity with the other girls but when she is dining with Windy, Johnny joins them and by a trick arranges for Windy to be escorted out by a couple of Military Policemen. On the way back Johnny sings to Rosemary ‘Let’s Take the Long Way Home’ and Rosemary realises that she is in love with him. In order to prevent his leaving to join the ‘Douglas’ Susie submits a suggestion for a show to be produced to aid WAVES recruitment and signs it with Johnny’s name. The suggestion is accepted and Johnny is placed as ‘Chief Specialist’ in charge of it. Thinking that Windy is responsible for the suggestion being put forward in his name Johnny chooses him as his assistant. A show is held aboard ‘U.S.S. Traverse Bay’ and Johnny, as an old postman, and Windy, as a commissionaire, both in black-face, sing ‘Ac-Cent-Tchu-Ate the Positive’ with the help of a chorus of WAVES. When Rosemary learns from Windy about ‘Johnny’s’ suggestion she thinks he has made it to avoid active service. Johnny manages to get hold of the written suggestion with the intention of showing it to Rosemary to prove it is not his handwriting but Susie gets it from him. Rosemary disbelieves that he had the note and tells him that she is going to leave the show. Windy persuades Susie to don a dark wig and pretend to be Rosemary. In this guise she drinks from a spirits flask (actually cold tea) and is seen kissing Windy in order that Johnny will form an entirely wrong impression of Rosemary. He is thus faced with Rosemary’s disbelief and her apparent preference for Windy. When the big show takes place Susie and other WAVES play in a sketch called ‘If WAVES Acted Like Sailors’ in which she sings ‘There’s a Fella Waiting in Poughkeepsie’, Johnny and Windy joining in the last few lines. Johnny, dispirited, writes a note for Windy and leaves. Windy, realising the true feeling between Johnny and Rosemary, explains the circumstances to her and, with Susie, goes after Johnny. Susie confesses to Johnny that it was she who sent in the suggestion and he returns to the show to duet with Rosemary ‘I Promise You’. The closing chorus number on stage is ‘Here Come the WAVES’ and after the triumphantly successful show is finished arrangements are made for Johnny and Windy to be flown out to join the ‘U.S.S. Douglas’.
Here Come the Waves
1944