At the turn of the century, having spent nearly 20 years trying to make it in show business, Stanley Snodgrass is still nothing more than a glorified chorus boy. Inept as ever, he causes an accident during a show that leads to co-stars Irene Bailey and Allen Trent taking a spill on stage. Over the objections of co-star Daisy Crockett, who loves him, Stanley is fired by Harry Fraser, the shows producer. Stanley returns home, where he still lives with his mother, Emily, and stepfather, Albert, who works in the coal business and has been financing Stanleys show-biz ambitions. A fed-up Albert demands that Stanley find a real job. "Jack the Slasher," a mysterious murderer, with a past romance with Irene. He sends her a threatening note and then stabs Allen, wounding him, jealously believing Allen to be her lover. Irene is able to identify a photo of Jack who shew knew as jack Bennett to a police detective, Dennis Logan. It is proposed that Allen offer himself as bait to bring Jack out of hiding, but when Allen declines, an unsuspecting Stanley is offered $100 a week and a room at the Waldorf to rejoin the show this time as the co star to Irene bailey. Irene pretends to be in love with Stanley, who arrogantly gives Daisy the brush. Logan poses as his new valet and knocks out Jack, who disguised as a barber intends to cut Stanleys throat. Jack is arrested and Stanley is once again fired. He takes a job in Alberts coal business, quickly making a mess of things there. Jack escapes jail. Harry again rehires Stanley, who still is clueless and believes Irene wants him. Daisy overhears the scheme. She warns Stanley, who accuses her of being jealous. On stage during an "Ali Baba" routine, Stanley narrowly misses being killed by Jack, who throws knives from the balcony. Jack disguises himself and joins the act, stabbing Stanley with a knife hes picked up backstage. Stanley is so dim, he doesnt realize it was a harmless prop knife until Daisy tells him. They live happily ever after, although Stanleys incompetence on stage continues to infuriate Harry.
Here Come the Girls (1953 film)
1953