Arriving home from a basketball game, Arnold Shortman (Spencer Klein) and his best friend Gerald Johanssen (Jamil Walker Smith) learn that Alphonse Perrier du von Scheck (Paul Sorvino), the CEO of FutureTech Industries (FTI), has announced plans to redevelop the entire neighborhood as a luxurious high-rise shopping mall. That night, Helga Patiki (Francesca Marie Smith) finds that her father, Big Bob (Maurice LaMarche), is working with FTI to build a new super-sized branch of his beeper store in the proposed mall. She ultimately sides with her father, though is hesitant to do so because of her love for Arnold. Arnold hosts a demonstration against FTI. Unfortunately, their permit is stolen by Schecks employees, Arnolds grandmother Gertie Shortman (Tress MacNeille) is arrested, and the demonstration is declared illegal. The failure encourages many of Arnolds neighbors to give up, and sell their homes to FTI. As the residents begin packing their belongings, Arnolds grandfather Phil Shortman (Dan Castellaneta) tells the story of the "Tomato Incident", a major revolutionary war battle fought in the city. Arnold realizes that the neighborhood had to have been declared a historic district after the war, effectively ensuring its preservation; however, the legal document granting its landmark status was sold to Scheck, who denies obtaining the document. As the deadline draws near, Arnold gets a mysterious phone call from "Deep Voice" (a "Deep Throat"-esque character), who informs Arnold that Scheck is lying and the document is in his office safe. Arnold and Gerald steals the key to the safe from Schecks assistant, Nick Vermicelli (Castellaneta). Nick later notices the missing key, and informs Scheck. Meanwhile, Phil and the boarders try to devise a backup plan in case Arnold fails. The plan is to wire the storm drain tunnels beneath their street with dynamite to intercept FTIs construction equipment. Big Bob later teams up with them after discovering Nicks contract states Scheck will control 51% of his company and swindle him as a result. With help from agent Bridget (Jennifer Jason Leigh), Arnold and Gerald infiltrate into FTI headquarters and access the safe, only to find that the document is missing. Scheck appears from behind them with the document in his hand. He reveals that his ancestor, a governor of the British forces, was humiliated by the "Tomato Incident", and, that, for years, Scheck has been planning to avenge his family by demolishing the neighborhood and replacing it with a hulking building carrying his name on it. He then burns the document to ensure that his plans will proceed, before summoning his guards to get rid of Arnold and Gerald. They escape, but believe they have failed, until "Deep Voice" advises Arnold to obtain the FTIs security-camera footage of Scheck burning the document. After Arnold finds out that "Deep Voice" is Helga, he asks why she decided to help him instead of her father. Helga reluctantly professes her love for Arnold. Helga and Arnold escape the building, and meet Gerald on a city bus, convincing the driver Murray (Craig Bartlett) to race home when realizing that his girlfriend lives in the same neighborhood. Despite several near-collisions, the kids eventually make it back unharmed. Mayor Dixie arrives at the scene, along with the police and a news crew. Accessing the large ScheckVision jumbotron poised atop a nearby building, Arnold and Bridget show everyone the footage of Scheck burning the document. Dixie officially restores the neighborhoods status as a historic site. Scheck arrives, demanding to know why demolition has not begun. He sees the footage of himself burning the document on the monitor. Gertie, having escaped prison, sabotaged his car, and Scheck is promptly arrested. Harold inadvertently sits down on the detonator that ignites Phils explosives, causing the jumbotron monitor to be destroyed. Helga denies ever having loved Arnold, claiming that she said those things in "the heat of the moment". Arnold, unconvinced, pretends to accept it as she returns home.
Hey Arnold!: The Movie
2002