Spike is putting his son, Tyke, to bed. When a bird flies by to chirp, Spike calmly tells the bird to be quiet. However, Tom and Jerrys usual antics wake Tyke up, and Spike asks Tom, "Hey! Whats the idea of waking up my boy?!" Tyke ends up getting the hiccups. Spike is understandably disappointed in both the noise and the hiccups and explains that every time Tyke wakes up disturbed from his nap, he gets the hiccups. Spike issues Tom a warning not to wake Tyke up again or else. Jerry immediately bites Toms tail, and Tom screams startledly in pain, (waking up Tyke a second time) and runs off. Each successive hiccup from Tyke pushes him another couple inches into the air before Spike pats him on the back. Tom peeks around the corner and Jerry pops his head out of a flower pot. Tom chases after Jerry with a shovel, but Spike quickly hears them again and plugs Tykes ears, but Jerry climbs onto the top of Spikes head, prompting Tom to accidentally whack Spike on the head with the shovel as Spike screams in pain, unwittingly disturbing his son again, and immediately grabs Tom by the upper-arms in anger. Meanwhile, this causes Tyke to resume hiccupping again, eventually causing him to hop across the ground. Spike tries to stop his son by holding him, with each subsequent hiccup literally carrying Spike with him. Later, as the dogs are fast asleep, Tom is chasing Jerry again and attempts to grab him underneath Tykes cradle, but Jerry slips a mousetrap on Toms hand. Tom gets ready to scream in pain as his face turns red, but manages to hold his breath until he puts a pair of earmuffs on the dogs so they dont wake up. Enraged, Tom pursues Jerry, who crawls into a hosepipe. Tom blows into the hosepipe and Jerry is sent out of the other end. Knowing that Tom will continue blowing, Jerry removes the dogs earmuffs and inserts a trumpet on the other side of the hose, waking up Spike and Tyke (mysteriously, Tyke doesnt get hiccups this time). As Tom continues blowing, Spike angrily marches up to him, pulls the trumpet off the hose, and slams it down onto an oblivious Toms head. When a surprised Tom pushes his head through the mouthpiece, it comes out tiny. Meanwhile, Jerry looks outside of his mousehole to see if the coast is clear and happily walks outside, only to run back inside when Tom once again spots him and lies in wait for Jerry to emerge. Jerry sneaks behind him, places some bicycle horns on Toms feet, and then walks up to Toms face and kisses him. An angry Tom gives chase, but then discovered that the bicycle horns squeak every time his feet touch the ground. Tom solves this by tiptoeing on his hands until Jerry trips him. Soon Tom falls down behind Spike, landing on his feet again. Spike wakes up, but he does not see Tom behind him. So instead, Spike looks between his legs, at which point Tom climbs Spikes back so he cant be seen. Unfortunately, Toms tail drops down into the dogs view, and Spike figured it out. He chases after Tom, and the bicycle horns start squeaking again. Spike pauses the chase, instructing the cat to remove the horns from his feet so Tyke doesnt wake up again. When the chase resumes, Tom successfully hides in a corner as Spike rushes off in the other direction. Jerry then turns the same corner as Tom, then retreats to Tykes cradle, but when Tom throws out everything in the cradle, including Tyke, to search for the mouse, Tyke wakes up and gets the hiccups again. Spike returns and Tom, after unsuccessfully trying to stifle Tykes hiccups (as each hiccup from Tyke literally passes from Toms hand to his own mouth), runs away in fear. Spike tries several methods to cure his sons hiccups by giving him water, scaring him and popping a paper bag loudly, all of which fail to solve the problem. Eventually, Spike ends up getting the hiccups too, threatening to have Tom destroyed for the cause of it. Next, Toms final attempt to catch Jerry, who has climbed onto the roof of a house, fails completely to suffice. Tom rests on the guttering, and it immediately falls off the house, sending Tom crashing harmlessly down to the ground, which startles the two dogs. In a cloud of black smoke, Tom, fearing for his life and fearing the worst, digs his own grave. As soon as the dust settles, Spike has barely begun to excavate the cat when he suddenly realizes that both bulldogs have been cured of their hiccups thanks to Tom. Spike is overjoyed, congratulates Tom and says that from now on, anything he does is okay with him and Tyke and that involves chasing Jerry. As soon as Jerry hears this, he goes to his mousehole, puts on his hat and briefcase and puts a sign on his door. Tom runs to the door and reads the sign which says, "Gone South For Sake Of Health." Jerry is seen running across an endless railroad track, which is shown to point to the South direction.
Hic-cup Pup
1952