After killing two women and ritualistically arranging their bodies as a sacrifice to Satan, a Devil worshipper (Sisto) invokes a Satanic verse in a room filled with candles and Satanic imagery. He then commits suicide by throwing himself onto an athame in order to damn his soul. What follows next is a near-death experience where the now dead killer flies through tunnels of light, eventually arriving at a gaping, tentacle like being of light who, after flashing through scenes of the recent brutal murders, darkens and casts the killers soul down into Hell. Hatch Harrison (Goldblum) is on a drive with his family. Harrison gets into a car accident and is pronounced dead, only to be revived two hours later by specialist Dr. Jonas Nyebern (Molina). During this time, Hatch experiences visions of the same tunnels of light as the killer from the first scene, but upon arriving for judgement is slowly floated into a surreal setting, where he sees his young daughter who died years before in a car accident. Hatch then enters Heaven and is merged into the light of a great angel. Upon being revived back to life, Hatch wakes up to learn that his wife Lindsay (Lahti), and daughter Regina (Silverstone), were also involved in the car accident but escaped without serious injuries. He then concludes that his visions of heaven were merely a dream. After the accident and subsequent revival, Harrison begins to experience other mysterious visions. These involve him seeing murders through the eyes of a killer. Harrison realizes that the murders are actually happening when the women he sees being murdered are announced as missing in news reports. The character Harrison sees committing the murders is later shown to be the same character who committed suicide in the opening sequence. The man, who is identified as "Vassago", talks to Harrisons daughter at a night club, which Harrison sees in his visions. Harrison attempts to stop Vassago from murdering only to be told that he is experiencing mental problems by his family, his psychiatrist, and the police. Harrison visits a psychic (Chong) who confirms his beliefs and tells him that Vassago is also having visions in which he can see through Harrisons eyes. It is then revealed that Vassago, whose real name is Jeremy Nyebern, is the son of Dr. Nyebern and he had killed his mother and sister. After his suicide, he had been revived from the dead by his father. Vassago then kidnaps Regina, taking her to an abandoned amusement park where he kills his father after being confronted by him. As Harrison and his wife find them, the souls of Vassago and Harrison collide in battle. Harrison (revealing himself to Vassago as "Uriel," Vassagos antithesis) is the victor, killing Vassago and saving Regina. With his family safe, he exits the park with them. The final scene after the credits shows Vassago being pulled in to be revived again. The operation is a success, but Vassago wakes up, takes a scalpel, and slits a nurses throat. Hatch wakes up in his bed, realizing he was only dreaming. He then hugs Lindsay and falls back to sleep.
Hideaway (film)
1995