Toms owner,(played by Billy Bletcher), is grilling steaks outside in his backyard. Jerry also gets hungry for some steaks and runs out of the basement to get to them, but Tom manages to stop him by trapping him with a fork. Tom then flings Jerry back into the basement, which makes him angry, and Jerry brings out his own fork to poke Tom with. The two engage in a fencing match with their forks; Tom misses, accidentally stabs Mr. Krupp in the butt with it, causing him to leap in pain. After Tom nervously salutes him, Mr. Krupp angrily sears Toms head with a hot girdle, turning his head into a waffle. Mr. Krupp goes back to grilling his stakes in anger. Later, Jerry next hides in a shuttlecock, trying to sneak onto the table, but Tom catches him and hits him with a racket. The shuttlecock bounces against the net and ricochets into Mr. Krupps mouth. Thinking that Tom threw the shuttlecock at him, the furious principal grabs the racket and breaks it apart over Toms head. Afterward, Jerry shakes up a bottle of Kooky Kola soda and sprays it on one of Mr. Krupps steaks, ruining it. The angry principal once again thinks that Tom is responsible for the damage, so he shakes up another bottle of Kooky Kola and force-feeds it to him as Tom gulps it, which turns him into a bottle. Jerry laughs at Toms predicament, and the cat once again gives chase. While searching for Jerry, Tom gets enamored with the aroma of the steam and goes up to the grill. Jerry, who was hiding behind the grill, places Toms tail into the grill, causing Tom to scream and run around wildly with the grill in tow. In the process, he smashes the table where Mr. Krupp is eating steak, ruining his luncheon and angering him further. Tom lands above the swimming pool with grill to cool off, but unable to get out in the water due to the grills weight. The irritated principal, finally having enough of Toms shenanigans, pulls Tom up by his neck and pounds him for ruining his luncheon. All the while Jerry hides under the picnic table as covered his eyes with his hat. After beating up Tom, Mr. Krupp then ties him very tightly to a lawnchair and burns him at the stake to make sure he stays out of trouble. Overcome by the heat of the flames and the stifling smoke, Tom screams in pain as Jerry wheels the lawnchair out of the yard and attaches it to a car, and the car drives away with the unconscious cat on it. After that, Mr. Krupp returns to his grilling in peace, while Jerry climbs up onto the table to eat one of Mr. Krupps cooked steaks.
High Steaks
1962