Cable layer Steve Reardon (Brian Donlevy) is in a tank at the bottom of the ocean near Hawaii reading an adventure story "The Son of Neptune", written by his girlfriend Edith McNeil (Glenda Farrell) who based the stories on Steves life. After repairing the cable he was sent to fix, Steve returns to San Francisco and asks his boss Willard Stone (Robert McWade) for a $1000 bonus and two weeks vacation so that he can marry Edith. Later, Steve and Edith have an argument, when he arrives hours late for their date and complains that she is taking too long to get dress. Steve, believing that Edith has been using him to get inspiration for her stories, storms out. At a bar, he meets piano player Eddie Mitchell (Norman Foster) and gets into a fight with two men who try to steal Steves money, and is knocked out unconscious. The next day, Steve wakes up in Eddies apartments. When Steve Learns that Eddie studied engineering in college, he offers help to his new friend to become a real engineer. One year later, Eddie has become an engineer and together with Steve they return to San Francisco. Steve buys an engagement ring for Edith. He has not seen her since their argument. When Steve arrives at her apartment and finds her with the heavyweight boxing champion, Terry Madden (Joe Sawyer), the subject of her new series "Ladies Love Champions", he gets into a fight with Terry. Steve is arrested and Edith bails him out of jail. They agree to marry if their romance lasts more than 6 months. Steve goes to work for F. Willoughly Tuttle, while Eddie takes the position as superintendent of the Honolulu station. In Honolulu, Eddie encounters hostility from chief engineer Noble Harrison (Theodore von Eltz), who believes that he shouldve gotten Eddies job. When Noble informs the head office that Eddie plans to correct a shifting coral formation which threatens to wreck their frayed cable by blasting; Steve convince the head office into sending him to Honolulu to help Eddie. When he tells Edith about the transfer and reveals that he agreed to stay on the job for one year, she becomes angry and ends their engagement. In Honolulu, Steve fires Noble and begins to flirt with Brenda Burke, Eddies secretary (whom Eddie has grown quite fond of). Brenda, tired of Eddies lack of interest, accepts Steves flirtation. When Steve spontaneously sends a picture of himself with Brenda in a bathing suit to Edith, she is furious and decides to go to Hawaii and give back his engagement ring personally. Meanwhile, in Honolulu Eddie warns Steve not to play with Brendas feeling and Steve realize that Eddie is in love with Brenda. Later, Steve meet up with Edith, they spend the evening together and reconciles. When Steve fails to show up for a 6 a.m. blast, Eddie, trying to impress Brenda, decides to go ahead with the blast without him. After Eddie dives into the coral, his air line is blocked. Steve arrives and rescues Eddie as Brenda and Edith watch on shore. Afterwards, Brenda and Eddie embrace, and a telegraph arrives from the head office saying that if Steve marries Edith, he will get a five-year contract and that she has permission to travel with him and get her stories.
High Tension (1936 film)
1936