Steven Kenet catches his unfaithful wife Helen in the apartment of Willard I. Whitcombe, her boss, and she is strangled to death. He attempts to commit suicide by driving his car into the river, even though they have a six-years-old son. Kenet survives but is sent to the county psychiatric hospital for evaluation to determine if he is sane enough to be charged with murder. He has no memory of what happened, likely due to a pre-existing brain injury from the war. Dr. Ann Lorrison takes an interest in his case, and in him. Surgery could cure Kenets brain injury, but he refuses to consent to it, preferring a life in an insane asylum to a probable murder conviction. However, when Lorrison informs him that because his mother has died, his son will be sent to an orphanage, Kenet changes his mind. (Lorrison herself has obtained temporary custody of the child.) Henry Cronner, janitor of the apartment building, attempts to blackmail Whitcombe. After being rebuffed, Cronner goes to see Kenet, hinting he can save him but withholding details until Kenet can pay. Whitcombe then sends Cronner plummeting to his death down the buildings elevator shaft. Kenet undergoes "narcosynthesis" -- a light dose of sodium pentathol -- to help him remember what happened. He recalls blacking out just as his hands were around Helens neck and later regaining consciousness to find her dead body. Kenet escapes from the hospital and, taking a reluctant Lorrison along, breaks into Whitcombes apartment. He recreates the scene, in hopes of jogging his memory, then returns to the hospital before he is missed. Whitcombe visits him there and provokes Kenet by confessing to the two murders; as he had hoped, he is attacked by Kenet, making the latter look like a homicidal lunatic. In desperation, Kenet breaks out of the hospital again. He manages to get to Whitcombe and subdues him. Under sodium pentathol Lorrison administers, Whitcombe recounts how he had tried to part ways with Helen Kenet after finding her husband unconscious in his apartment, but she threatened to cause a scandal and ruin any chance of becoming a partner in his firm. Taken into custody, Whitcombe is told that anything he said under the truth serum can not be used against him. He vows to get a lawyer and be cleared. Kenet, meantime, is free to go.
High Wall
1947