The film opens with Troy Bolton and the rest of the East High Wildcats basketball team trailing behind the West High Knights in the Championship and final game of the season. At the half, Troy rallies his team with, "Now or Never", and with an assist from a new freshman team member, Jimmie "Rocket-man" Zara, the Wildcats win the Championship. Later that night at the post-game party, held at Troys house, Troy and Gabriella are sitting in Troys old treehouse discussing their unknown future and the short time they have left at East High. ("Right Here, Right Now") Sharpay hires a personal assistant, a British exchange student named Tiara Gold, to help relieve the stress of senior year. Drama teacher Ms. Darbus, notices the lack of sign-ups and Sharpay suggests a one- woman show. The writer and pianist of the show Kelsi, signs everyone in homeroom up at the displease of the rest of the class. Ms. Darbus announces that the show will be called "Senior Year" and will focus on the future of the graduating seniors. In addition, she reveals that Sharpay, Ryan, Kelsi, and Troy have all been considered for a scholarship at Juilliard School, but only one of them is to be chosen. Troy is confused because he did not apply to Juilliard. Seeing his friends laughing, he believes they gave his name to Juilliard. Sharpay becomes desperate to win the scholarship, and knowing that Kelsi will give the best songs to Troy and Gabriella in the musical, she gets Ryan to try to persuade Kelsi to give them a song, by predicting her (and Ryans) future ("I Want It All"). The very next day, Troy asks Gabriella to the dance while on the rooftop (seen previously in the first film as The Garden Club, a place where Troy goes seeking some quiet). She then teaches him how to waltz ("Can I Have This Dance?"). After that, Troy and Chad steal Jimmie and Donnies clothes while they are showering, thus leading through a big chase through the halls of East High and into the auditorium and Ms. Darbus forced them to volunteer as understudies, and gives all 4 of them detention. Chad then asks Taylor to go to prom with him with a cheesy pick-up line. She initially refuses, but later relents when Chad proves he can put in some effort and asks again in front of everyone in school during lunch. The group rehearses for the musical, a scene about their prom night ("A Night to Remember"). The next day, Ryan walks in on Kelsi composing in the music room and they start to sing ("Just Wanna Be with You") which leads to Ryan asking Kelsi to prom. While Troy and Chad reminisce about their past in Reillys Auto Parts ("The Boys Are Back"). Tiara overhears Gabriella and Taylors conversation about the Stanford Freshmans Honors Program and informs Sharpay about it, while Sharpay convinces Troy that he is the only thing keeping Gabriella from her dream. Troy talks to Gabriella about this and after sharing an awkward goodnight, Gabriella sings ("Walk Away") and leaves for college the next day. Troys father, Jack, talks to him about his academic future, which he expects will be in the University of Albuquerque. This assumption makes Troy become angry and confused about which college he is going to, and he runs away, storming around East High bewildered until he finally screams at the top of his lungs in the theater ("Scream"). Ms. Darbus is secretly watching and reveals that she sent in his application for Juilliard. Troy later gets a call from Gabriella saying that although she loves him, she will not return to Albuquerque for prom or graduation. However, on the day of the prom, Troy visits Gabriella at Stanford University and convinces her to return and they kiss during the lunch break ("Can I Have This Dance? (Reprise)"). Back at East High, Sharpay is prepared for the last musical at East High and Troys fellow basketball player Jimmie receives a text from Troy to tell him to cover for him onstage because he is going to be late. The Juilliard representatives are there, and watch as the show seems to go well. Kelsi and Ryan start out the show followed by a couple other numbers; Jimmie then performs with Sharpay, both as understudies for Troy and Gabriella, and embarrasses her, although the audience applauds the performance. Troy and Gabriella appear during the second half of the show and sing their duet together, redoing Jimmie and Sharpays understudied reprise. Tiara then betrays Sharpay and tells her how she is going to take over next year in the drama department. Sharpay finally learns how it feels to be manipulated and humiliated, but nevertheless does not wish to go down. While Tiara performs, Sharpay immediately crashes her performance and upstages her ("Senior Year Spring Musical"). At the end of the musical, Ms. Darbus reveals that both Kelsi and Ryan have won the Juilliard scholarship and tells about everyones future plans, in which Troy reveals hes chosen University of California, Berkeley so he can be close to Gabriella where he can play basketball and perform in theater. Taylor reveals that she will be attending Yale University with honors to study Political Science, and Sharpay and Chad revealed they would attend the University of Albuquerque, to study Performing Arts and for basketball, respectively. ("Were All in This Together"). At the graduation ceremony, Troy gives the class speech after being selected by Ms. Darbus. Throwing their caps in the air, the graduates form a giant "wildcat" before breaking out into song and dance ("High School Musical"). As the film ends, the graduates run across the field, the curtain falls, and they appear on the East High stage. The main cast performs the song, "High School Musical", before jumping and bowing when the curtain falls.
High School Musical 3: Senior Year
2008