In 1985, Connor MacLeod, also known as the Highlander, is confronted by fellow immortal Iman Fasil in a New York City arena parking garage. MacLeod decapitates him, upon which an energy surge from Fasil enters Connor and destroys several cars around him. Connor hides his sword just as police officers swarm the garage and arrest him. Connors history is revealed through a series of flashbacks throughout the film. In the Scottish Highlands in 1536, The Kurgan assists Clan Fraser against the Clan MacLeod in exchange for the right to slay Connor. In battle, the Kurgan stabs Connor but is driven off by the MacLeod clansmen before he can cut off his head. When Connor makes a complete recovery, his family and friends are convinced it is the work of the devil. They attempt to have Connor burned, but he is instead exiled by the clans Chief as an act of mercy and he wanders about, eventually becoming a blacksmith. The flamboyant Juan Sánchez Villa-Lobos Ramírez appears and tutors Connor in sword-fighting and the history of the immortals. Ramirez explains that they belong to a group of immortals, who can be killed only by decapitation. When one immortal decapitates another, the winner receives a transfer of power from the deceased called "The Quickening". Eventually, all the immortals must meet in "The Gathering" and do battle until there is only one left alive; the survivor will receive "The Prize". Ramirez tells Connor that the Kurgan, the strongest of the immortals, must not win the Prize, or mankind will enter an eternal dark age. One night while Connor is away, the Kurgan attacks, decapitating Ramirez. Some years later, Connors wife Heather dies of old age in his arms. Ramirez had explained earlier that immortals cannot have children, but Connor and Heather chose to be wed regardless. In 1985, the police release Connor after he denies knowing Fasil. One of the detectives, who is named Brenda Wyatt is an expert in metallurgy and recognises Fasils sword as an extremely rare Toledo Salamanca broadsword. Later, Connor returns to the garage to retrieve his own sword but sees Brenda looking at the crime scene. She finds metal shards embedded in a concrete column. Connor lives under the alias Russell Nash and is a wealthy antiquities dealer. Brenda tails Connor but the Kurgan attacks them. The fight is interrupted by a police helicopter and everybody flees. Brenda analyzes the metal shards and discovers them to be from a Japanese katana dated about 600 B.C. but made with medieval-era technology. She makes a date with Connor in an attempt to entrap him. Connor recognizes the ruse, tells her to stop digging and leaves. Connor meets with fellow immortal Sunda Kastagir. They talk about "The Gathering" and joke about old times. Meanwhile, Brenda discovers that Connor has been alive for centuries; every few decades he fakes his death, signs his assets over to children who had died at birth, and assumes their identities. She confronts Connor, who demonstrates his immortality. After this revelation, Brenda and Connor become lovers. However, he breaks up with her shortly after, citing Ramirezs warnings about immortals forming attachments to mortals. The Kurgan finds Kastagir and kills him. On Heathers birthday, Connor lights a candle for her in a Roman Catholic Church, as he has done every year since her death. The Kurgan arrives and informs him that only they remain. However, by immortal tradition they cannot fight on holy ground. The Kurgan finds out about Connors relationship with Brenda and kidnaps her to draw Connor to Silvercup Studios in Queens. After a long battle, Connor defeats and beheads the Kurgan. He receives the Prize, which manifests itself as a massive Quickening. Now mortal and capable of having children, Connor returns to Scotland with Brenda. Connor now can read peoples thoughts around the world, and promises to use his gift to encourage cooperation and peace.
Highlander (film)
1994