Madhava Raos (Chiranjeevi) mother dies when he is very small leaving five sisters with him. His father (Dasari Narayana Rao) is arrested for killing his mother by beating her in a rage. Madhava hates his father but loves his sisters with a fierce protectiveness. He takes care of them and nurtures them very well. They all grow up. Madhava is always worried about his sisters and tries to keep them secure. He assaults local youths who try to chat up his sisters, or even look at them. As a result, they label him "Hitler". Life nevertheless runs fairly smoothly, though all the villagers are careful how they behave around him. Madhavas uncle has two children, Balu (Rajendra Prasad), who is in love with Madhavs second sister (Mohini), and Rambha who loves Madhava and wants to marry him. One day as Madhava is out, Mohini asks Balu to come to her house, but things go badly when Madhava returns home earlier than expected and finds Balu in his house. He asks him why he is there and what is he doing, and Balu mumbles. Enraged, Madhava beats him and tells his uncle that he shall not marry his daughter. Balu and Mohini decide to elope without the consent of Madhava. Madhva adisowns her. All the other sisters, having a soft-spot for their sister, start hating their brother for not understanding her love for Madhava. Shortly after this Madhavas father is released from jail. He attempts to talk to his son about his mothers death, but Madhava will not listen. He leaves to make a new life for himself. Some while later a man who works with his father comes to Madhava and tells him that his father is in danger. Madhavas father is later murdered. Madhava discovers that his father was innocent of his mothers murder and that his uncles business partners were behind both killings. Madhavas father has left a message asking him to take care of the two daughters he had with his second wife. Madhava brings them home. Madhavas sisters hate them and behave unpleasantly to them. When he discovers this Madhava scolds them. In protest at his authoritarian ways, his sisters all leave the home. The villains see an opportunity to strike at Madhava and kidnap his unprotected sisters. Madhava rescues them and his sisters ask his pardon for defying him. All ends well.
Hitler (1997 film)
1997