At a remote compound, a group of young boys are receiving tattoos of bar codes on the back of their shaved heads; men observe, direct, and coordinate the training of the boys in firearms, unarmed combat, stamina and strength. The boys are trained from an early age to be professional, international hitmen-for-hire. Interpol agent Mike Whittier (Dougray Scott) arrives home and is met at gunpoint by Agent 47. The two talk about 47s life as a professional hitman, working for a mysterious paramilitary group known simply as the Organization. Three months prior, 47 (Timothy Olyphant) is completing a hit on a Nigerian warlord named Bwana Ovie, force-feeding one of his prisoners with plastic explosives. He remotely detonates the bomb, killing Ovie and three of his men. In a change of plans, 47 is told by his Organization contact, Diana Burnwood, that he is to kill his next target, Russian President Mikhail Belicoff (Ulrich Thomsen), publicly instead of privately. He completes his mission, but before he can leave Russia, he is contacted by his employers. They tell him that there is a witness to the assassination and order him to intercept and kill her. When 47 realizes she has never seen him before, he does not shoot her, instead, he narrowly avoids an assassination attempt on himself, attempted by another Agent. His employers reveal his location to agents of the FSB, who make plans to intercept him. As he is about to be taken, Diana calls to warn him and tells him that Belicoff himself ordered the hit. After he escapes from the hotel, 47 intercepts Nika (Olga Kurylenko), Belicoffs mistress, the woman who supposedly witnessed his hit. He interrogates her about Belicoff and discovers that Belicoff had a body double, who ordered the hit on the real Belicoff so that he could take his place as the president of Russia. 47 was to be killed after the hit to ensure total secrecy. As Nika and 47 attempt to take a train further into Russia, they are intercepted by more Organization Agents. 47 kills four of them. Whittier attempts to arrest 47, and 47 wounds and knocks his partner (Michael Offei) unconscious, but is persuaded by Nika not to kill Whittier. FSB Agent Yuri Marklov (Robert Knepper) orders Interpol to leave the country. 47 contacts CIA officer Carlton Smith to offer him a deal. 47 will kill Udre Belicoff, Mikhails brother (an arms dealer and human trafficker), in exchange for a favor. Agent Smith informs 47 that Udre had been planning something with a German arms dealer named Price. Intercepting him could lead 47 to Udre. 47 and Nika travel to Istanbul, where 47 abducts Price in order to pose as Price at a meeting with Udre. 47 kills Udres bodyguards and then Udre, forcing Belicoffs double to attend Udres public funeral. 47 kidnaps Marklov and forces him to order his own agents to shoot Belicoffs double as he delivers the eulogy. Disguised as a soldier, 47 kills Belicoffs doubles guards and takes him into the archbishops chamber in the church. 47 kills him and allows himself to be taken into custody by Interpol and Whittier. Smith delivers on his end of the deal with 47. His operatives intercept the Interpol convoy that is transporting 47 to the airport, causing enough distraction that 47 escapes. The scene then flashes forward to the conversation between Whittier and 47 in Whittiers home. 47 suggests Whittier go along with his plan, saying that he will notify the police that he has killed the fake Agent 47, implying that Whittier will not survive if he does not. He also suggests that Whittier waits until after his daughters have gone to school, so they dont have to witness it. Nika picks up an envelope from an undisclosed sender. Inside it, there are papers and a message saying that she now owns a vineyard, a dream of hers. 47 is watching her from afar, through the scope of a sniper rifle. He then looks at the corpse of another Organization Agent laying at his feet, tells the body that he warned the Organisation not to touch her, and then walks away.
Hitman (2007 film)
2007