In 1693 on October 31, near Salem, Massachusetts, Thackery Binx sees his little sister, Emily, spirited away to the cottage of three witches. There, the Sanderson sisters, Winifred, Sarah and Mary, cast a spell on Emily to absorb her youth and regain their own, killing her in the process. Thackery confronts the witches who transform him into an immortal black cat to live with his guilt for not saving Emily. The townsfolk, led by Binxs father, capture the witches. But before being hanged, Winifreds spellbook casts a curse that will resurrect the witches during a full moon on All Hallows Eve when any virgin lights the Black Flame Candle. Thackery guards the cottage to ensure no one summons the witches. 300 years later on October 31, 1993, Max Dennison is feeling unsettled from his familys sudden move from Los Angeles to Salem. While exploring the town, he and his sister Dani meet Allison, whose family owns the Sanderson cottage as a museum. Max suggests that they go there and impress Allison, but is forced to take Dani trick-or-treating. Investigating inside the cottage, Max lights the Black Flame Candle and inadvertently resurrects the witches, who plot to continue their plan to suck out the souls of all of Salems children, beginning with Dani. Escaping, Max steals Winifreds spellbook on advice from Thackery. The witches pursue them to a cemetery, where Winifred raises her unfaithful lover Billy Butcherson as a zombie to chase them on foot. The witches try to acclimate to the 20th century, but are horrified when they discover Halloween has become a holiday, and their broomsticks are stolen. The witches plan to achieve their goals or they will be disintegrated on sunrise. They pursue the children across town using Marys enhanced sense of smell. Max, Allison and Dani find their parents at a Halloween party at the town hall, where Winifred enchants the partygoers to dance and sing until they die. At Jacob Bailey High School, the children trap the witches in a kiln to burn them alive. While celebrating, the witches curse revives them again, and they kidnap Dani and Thackery after Max and Allison open the spellbook exposing their location. Sarah then uses her siren-like voice to mesmerize Salems children and lure them to the Sandersons cottage. Max and Allison rescue Dani and Thackery by tricking the witches into believing sunrise came an hour early. Back at the cemetery, Max runs into Billy, who cuts open his stitched up mouth and insults Winifred, joining Max to protect Dani. The witches attack and Winifred attempts to suck out the soul from Dani with the single vial of potion she retrieved from her cauldron. Thackery leaps on Winifred and knocks the potion out of her hand into Maxs, but is then thrown to the ground and mortally wounded. Rather than smashing the vial, Max drinks it and apparently makes himself a sacrifice. As the sun rises, Winifred is unable to drain Maxs life force from him after falling into the hallowed ground, and soon turns to stone and is disintegrated to dust along with her sisters. As the satisfied Billy returns to his grave, Thackery dies, freeing his soul. He thanks Max, Dani and Allison for their help, and bids farewell to them, before he and Emily walk into the afterlife. As the end credits begin, the exhausted partygoers are freed from the spell and return home. Meanwhile, at the Sandersons cottage, Jay and Ernie, two male bullies who earlier tormented Max and Dani, remain imprisoned in their cages while passing the time singing "Row, Row, Row Your Boat". The film ends with Winnies spellbook opening its eye, implying that Winnies last words re-activated the resurrection spell.
Hocus Pocus (1993 film)
1993