Chuck Murray (Bud Abbott) and Ferdie Jones (Lou Costello), gas station attendants, aspire to better jobs waiting tables at Chez Glamour, a high-class nightclub, where Ted Lewis and The Andrews Sisters perform. However, Chuck and Ferdie cause a ruckus and the snooty maitre d (Mischa Auer) fires them. Back at the gas station, gangster "Moose" Mattson (William B. Davidson) brings his car in for servicing. Chuck and Ferdie are caught inside the vehicle when the gangster speeds off to escape the police. During the chase Matson exchanges shots with the police and is killed. Chuck and Ferdie learn from the gangsters attorney that through a strange clause in his will, which states that whoever was with him when he died will inherit his estate, the boys now own Mattsons rundown tavern, the Forresters Club. Mattson had also given a cryptic clue about a hidden stash of money, stating that he "kept his money in his head," but its existence and location remained a mystery. Mattsons attorney introduces the boys to an associate, Charlie Smith, who will accompany the boys to the rural property in a wildcat bus. The boys are unaware that Smith (Marc Lawrence) is a member of Mooses gang and is after the money. The unscrupulous bus driver, however, abandons them and three unrelated passengers--a doctor (Richard Carlson), a radio actress (Joan Davis) and a waitress (Evelyn Ankers)--at the club during a heavy rainstorm. As the night progresses, strange things happen. Smith disappears while searching the basement, and his corpse turns up unexpectedly several times. The water in the tavern is undrinkable. Ferdies bedroom turns out to be rigged with hidden gambling equipment. The girls are scared by what appears to be a ghost. Two detectives show up but vanish soon after starting their investigation. Chuck and the doctor decide to search for the detectives while Ferdie examines a map to find the quickest route back to town. However, the candles on the table move mysteriously and scare Ferdie. Ferdie eventually finds Mooses treasure hidden inside the stuffed moose head over the fireplace. Members of the gang (including the so-called detectives) appear and demand the money, leading to a chase through the building. Ferdie scares them off by making the sound of a police siren. The doctor announces that the water they drank last night has therapeutic properties, and Ferdie and Chuck should transform the club into a health resort. The boys also hire Ted Lewis and The Andrews Sisters to headline, and the maitre d who fired them from Chez Glamour turns up as a waiter.
Hold That Ghost
1941