Bill Lannigan (John Dilson), boss of Skip Tracers Ltd. - a debt collecting company, gives his repossession agent Jimmy Parker (James Dunn) an ultimatum: he has thirty days to become as successful as his competitor, Miles Hanover (Dave OBrien), or he will be fired. Jimmy and his girlfriend Mary Mulvaney (Frances Gifford) try to repossess a radio, belonging to Miss Lulu Driscoll (Rita La Roy) who has not kept up her payments. But Jimmy is unaware that there are stolen jewels in the radio! It turns out the jewels are stolen from a famous movie star named Connie Hill (Anna Lisa). Since Jimmy is persistent and forces his way into her hotel room, Lulu calls the police and they arrest both him and Mary and take them to jail. Meanwhile, Hills manager, John Lawrence (William Hall), strongly suspects that her fiancé Steve Brady (George Douglas) is somehow involved in the theft of Connies jewels. Lawrence overhears a conversation between Douglas and a man called Duke Jurgens (Paul Bryar) as they talk about a share in the robbery. Lawrence is convinced that Brady is in on the theft and goes to Skip Tracers to hire someone to get the jewels back and Jimmys competitor Miles, gets the assignment. Jimmy is released from prison and happy to be free so he decides on a whim to marry Mary. He also tries to find Driscoll to repossess both the radio and the jewels but discovers that shes moved. Meanwhile, Hanover sees Brady abducted by The Duke and his gang. They go to Driscolls new residence to find the missing jewels, and discover Hanover and tie him up, while both Driscoll and Brady are put in the trunk of a car. The Duke and his men rummage through the house to find the jewels when they are interrupted by Jimmy coming for the radio. The Duke gives Jimmy the radio just to get rid of him. Jimmy finds the missing jewels inside the radio and sees the car parked outside the house. The car also happens to be on his list of items to repossess, so he tells Mary to take his car, while he takes this one back for repossession. The Duke sees Jimmy take his car and a chase ensues, ending with the police stopping both vehicles. Jimmy gets the jewels to his boss Lannigan and gets a reward for finding them. But the real crooks and the cops are soon after them again. It’s just a matter of who’ll catch up with them first and if they’ll survive long enough for Jimmy to carry Mary over the threshold of their own home.
Hold That Woman!
1940