Bobby Taylor (Robert Townsend) is a middle class black male aspiring to become an actor. He practices his lines in the bathroom, with his younger brother Stevie (Craigus R. Johnson) watching as he plays a stereotypical “jive” character for the audition for Jivetime Jimmys Revenge, a movie about street gangs. Bobbys grandmother (Helen Martin) overhears the “jive talk” and expresses disapproval. His mother (Starletta DuPois), is more supportive, and Bobby assures her that if he lands the part, everything will change. After the audition, Bobby talks with his boss Mr. Jones, who questions Bobbys dedication to his restaurant, Winky Dinky Dog. A limousine arrives, and its passenger is B.B. Sanders (Brad Sanders), who plays Batty Boy in Theres a Bat in My House. Ecstatic, Bobby asks Sanders how to determine a good role. Sanders tells him that if his character does not die in the script, then its a good part. Sanders also says that it is not about art, it is about the sequel. Bobby gets a call from his agent and learns that his audition went well, but they wanted an “Eddie Murphy-type". Regardless, Bobby gets a callback. That night, he has a nightmare in which the director (Eugene Robert Glazer), writer (Dom Irrera), and casting director (Lisa Mende) hound him to be Eddie Murphy. Waiting in line with a group of Eddie Murphy clones, Bobby starts turning into Eddie Murphy himself until he wakes up in shock. The next day, Bobbys co-workers, Donald and Tiny, belittle Bobbys career as an actor and his constant excuses for missing work, telling him that he will never make it as an actor. Bobby quits his job. Later that night, Bobby visits his uncle, Ray, and expresses his doubts in pursuing his acting career. Ray encourages Bobby to try to follow his dreams. During his callback, the director, writer, and casting director are thrilled at Bobbys performance, calling it “very black” and give him the eponymous lead role. At home, Bobby celebrates getting the part with his girlfriend Lydia, when his grandmother comes home early and the three watch a film noir. Bobby has another fantasy of him playing the lead in his own film noir, Death of a Breakdancer. That night, Bobby dreams of the roles that he wants to play, from a Shakespearean king, to a black superhero, to Rambo. His final dream is that of him winning his fifth Oscar. Bobby returns to the studio the next day to start filming Jivetime Jimmys Revenge with his family in the audience. Due to his overwhelming guilt of playing such a stereotypical character, Bobby quits in the middle of the shoot. With his grandmother steadfastly telling him there is work at the post office, Bobby ends the film shooting a commercial for the US Postal Service.
Hollywood Shuffle
1987