In late 19th-century Arizona, an Apache-raised white man, John Russell, faces prejudice in the white world after he returns for his inheritance (a gold watch and a boarding house) upon his fathers death. Deciding to sell the house in order to buy a herd of horses—which does not endear him to the boarders who live there or to the caretaker, Jessie—Russell ends up riding a stagecoach with Jessie and unhappily married boarders Doris and Billy Lee Blake leaving town. Three others ride with them: Indian agent Professor Alexander Favor, his aristocratic wife Audra and the crude Cicero Grimes. Upon discovering that John Russell is of Apache background, Professor Favor requests that Russell ride up top with driver Henry Mendez. The stagecoach is robbed by a gang led by Grimes, who knew that Dr. Favor had been carrying money that he stole from the very Apaches whom Russell grew up with. Grimes rides off, taking Mrs. Favor as a hostage. Russell shoots two of the outlaws—one of whom is Jessies former lover, sheriff-gone-bad Frank—who have the stolen money in their saddle bags. He insists that Dr. Favor give the recovered money to him. His fellow passengers now appeal to Russell to lead them to safety. After Russell scouts ahead, Dr. Favor disarms Mendez. Russell returns as Favor is about to leave with the money and supplies; Russell banishes him from the group. Russells instincts to protect the group clash with their morality and desire to save the Favors, especially when Grimes and his remaining gang offer to trade Mrs. Favor for the money. Their pity for Mrs. Favors life eventually outweighs the knowledge that Grimes is using her to bait a trap, and Jessie talks Russell into saving Mrs. Favor. Russell gives the money to Billy Lee and asks him to take it back to the Indians from whom it was stolen. Russell descends from the groups hideout with saddle bags that he pretends are full of the money, while Billy Lee stays in the hideout and aims a rifle at the Mexican outlaw who is at Russells back. Russell cuts Mrs Favor loose, and she slowly makes her way up to the group, but by the time Russell throws the saddle bags to Grimes, Mrs Favor has collapsed at a point where she is obscuring Billy Lees target. In the ensuing firefight, although Russell is able to kill Grimes, he and the Mexican outlaw shoot each other dead. As his last words, the Mexican outlaw says, "I would at least like to know his name". Méndez replies, "He was called John Russell".
Hombre (film)
1967