Bugs wakes up after a long night to find that a burly construction worker (whom Bugs derisively refers to as "Hercules") has just shoveled up his rabbit hole near a highrise building being built. Bugs kindly asks the construction worker to put his hole back, and the worker pretends to comply, before he dumps Bugs and the dirt into the dump truck. Bugs angrily shouts "Hey, you big gorilla! Didnt you ever hear of the sanctity of the American home?" before another mound of earth falls on him and the truck hauls him away. When the worker exits the crane, Bugs calls him from the building under construction ("Yoo hoo! Hercules! Heres a message for ya!") dropping a brick on him (along with a telegram labeled "Eastern Onion" reading "Okay Hercules... You asked for it... Bugs Bunny"), then a steel girder, and then plays with the elevator controls while the worker is inside the elevator. Bugs then impersonates the project engineer and orders the worker to make a high brick wall, followed by several attachments. Once done, the worker is trapped at dizzying heights on a teeterboard. As Bugs removes the bricks from one end, the worker on the other end strips off his clothes to save weight. This only works temporarily; by the time Bugs removes the last brick the worker is down to nothing but his underwear. The worker takes the fall, but suddenly manages to knock Bugs out temporarily with a steel girder, causing Bugs to dumbly "sleepwalk" through a harrowing series of moving girders and other objects. He finally regains his senses when he falls into a barrel full of water, then witnesses his nemesis bullying a shy employee, swiping his lunch and ordering him back to work. Infuriated, Bugs decides to put the goon out of commission once and for all ("Action, he says? Action he shall get."). Appropriating a red-hot rivet with pliers, Bugs takes a look at the posted floor plans for the building and finds his mark. He releases the rivet down a hole; it bounces around through an elaborate maze of objects and finally lands and burns through a rope holding up a giant steel casing which falls on top of the worker (who echoes Candy Candidos radio catchphrase, "Im feelin mighty low"). Bugs ultimatum: "Do I get my home back or do I have to get tough?" prompts the worker to finally wave the white flag in defeat. The next shot is of the finished skyscraper, with a slight indentation in the middle. At the bottom, Bugs sits in his hole - the building has been built around it - and declares: "After all, a mans home is his castle."
Homeless Hare
1950