In Chicago, the McCallister family is preparing for a Christmas vacation in Miami. On the night before their departure, the entire family gathers at Peter and Kates home, where their youngest son, Kevin, sees Florida as contradictory to Christmas, on his opinion of the lack of Christmas trees in Florida. During the school Christmas pageant, Kevins older brother Buzz humiliates him during his solo, causing Kevin to retaliate, thereby ruining the performance. While Buzz fakes an apology to Kevin in front of the McCallisters (who are convinced it is sincere), Kevin refuses to apologize to Buzz and storms to the third floor of the house. Prior to the pageant, Peter has unknowingly caused the alarm clock to reset; consequently, the family once again oversleeps. In the confusion they have to rush to reach the airport on time, Kevin falls behind everyone else, and mistakenly boards a flight bound for New York City while trying to replace the batteries for his Talkboy and carrying Peters bag containing his wallet and a large amount of money; upon arrival in Miami, Kate realizes that Kevin is missing again. In New York, Kevin tours the city and meets a homeless woman tending to pigeons at Central Park, where he runs off. Kevin goes to the Plaza Hotel, where he tantalizes the staff into checking in with Peters credit card, knowing the hotel takes Visa. On Christmas Eve, Kevin tours the city in a limousine and visits a toy store where he meets its philanthropic owner, Mr. Duncan. Kevin learns that the proceeds from the stores Christmas sales will be donated to a childrens hospital. Kevin donates $20 to the hospital. As a token of appreciation, Mr. Duncan offers Kevin a pair of ceramic turtledoves as a gift, instructing him to give one to another person as a sign of eternal friendship. After running into Harry and Marv, who have recently escaped from prison and are now called "The Sticky Bandits", Kevin retreats to the Plaza Hotel. The hotels concierge, Mr. Hector, maniacally confronts Kevin about the credit card, which has been reported stolen. Kevin flees after evading Mr. Hector, but is captured by Harry and Marv. The duo discuss plans for breaking into the toy store that night. Kevin manages to escape by pinching a woman in front of him, which results in the woman attacking the duo.  Kevins family travels to New York after tracking the whereabouts of the stolen credit card, and Kate searches the city for Kevin. Meanwhile, Kevin goes to his uncle Robs townhouse, only to find the house vacant and undergoing renovations, while Rob and his family are in Paris. At Central Park, he encounters and befriends the pigeon lady. They go to Carnegie Hall, where an orchestra is performing. The pigeon lady explains how her life collapsed and how she dealt with it by taking care of the pigeons in the park. Kevin gives the pigeon lady some advice and promises that he will be her friend. Kevin, after remembering what the bandits said, returns to the townhouse, and rigs it with numerous booby traps. Kevin arrives at the toy store during Harry and Marvs robbery and throws a brick through the window, setting off the stores alarm. Kevin then lures the duo to the townhouse, where he springs the traps and Harry and Marv suffer various injuries. When the duo chase Kevin around the townhouse, he escapes and calls the police. Harry and Marv catch him and take him down to Central Park to kill him, but the pigeon lady sneaks in and throws birdseed on the duo, and the pigeons storm in to incapacitate them. Kevin sets off fireworks he had bought earlier to signal the police. The police arrive and arrest the bandits. At the toy store, Mr. Duncan finds a note from Kevin attached to the brick, explaining about what happened. Kate, still searching for Kevin on foot, remembers his fondness for Christmas trees. After observing Kevin making a wish at the Rockefeller Center Christmas Tree, Kate meets him there, and they reconcile. On Christmas Day, a truckload of gifts arrive at the McCallisters hotel room from the toy store. Kevin and Buzz reconcile, and Buzz allows him to open up the first present. Kevin goes to Central Park to give the pigeon lady the second turtledove. At the Plaza, Buzz receives the bill for Kevins stay from Cedric and shows it to Peter. Peter suddenly shouts out, "KEVIN, YOU SPENT $967 ON ROOM SERVICE?!" at which point Kevin runs off.
Home Alone 2: Lost in New York
1992