Alice Kinney is the daughter of film director John Kinney, who made several prominent personal-focused films in his life but passed away some years ago. As she hits her fortieth birthday, Alice is currently separated from her husband Austen, who has stayed in New York in his role as a music producer while Alice has moved back into her fathers Los Angeles home with her daughters, Isabel and Rosie, to be near to her mother, Lillian. Alice is also attempting to start her own interior design business. While out for a drink with her friends, Alice encounters Harry, George and Teddy, three aspiring filmmakers in LA to make a pitch to possible producers after a short film they presented at a film festival received positive acclaim. Despite the three being in their late twenties, they hit it off with Alice and her friends, with Alice nearly sleeping with Harry before he passes out from intoxication. The next morning, George discovers a room containing John Kinneys old scripts and awards and realizes Alices family history just as Lillian, Isabel and Rosie return from the girls night with their grandmother. Alice takes the girls to school while Lillian offers the young men breakfast, and is so won over by their compliments of Johns old films that she offers them the guest house while they make their pitch. As the three stay in the house, they all become an important part of Alices routine, as she develops a potential romantic interest in Harry while Teddy helps her set up a web site for her business. George encourages Isabel to enter a script-writing contest at school as part of an effort to pursue her own literary aspirations, with Isabel coming to rely on George for emotional support to deal with anxiety issues when it comes to her writing. The three young men also meet with Justin Miller, a director who is interested in funding their own project despite his past work focusing on horror movies. As Alice and Harry grow closer, she invites him to join her for a dinner with a couple of her friends, but Harry has a meeting with Miller about further funding opportunities that runs over, prompting Alice to call off their potential romantic relationship the following morning. Depressed when she realises that her first potential client has basically been treating her more like general hired help without taking any of her design suggestions seriously, Alice is further thrown when Austen unexpectedly arrives in Los Angeles, claiming that he is uncomfortable about having three strangers living with his family. When Harry learns that Teddy and George have been pursuing independent projects, he becomes bitter at the belief that they have no faith in his own work, prompting him to leave the house. Teddys dislike of Austens subtle manipulations culminates in a fight between the two just as Alice returns from picking up her daughters from school, but although Alice agrees with Austen that it may be time for the others to move out, she informs Austen that she wants an official divorce. George and Teddy reconcile with Harry and find their own flat, with Harry accepting the other twos decision to pursue other opportunities on top of their own work. A week later, Alice visits the boys new flat to apologise for how things turned out, assuring them that she still wants them to be a part of her family. Harry apologises to Alice, declaring that shes too good for him. On the day of Isabels school play, the three men have a meeting with a potential investor in their project, but when the meeting overruns and the client expresses ideas that are not in line with their own vision of the film, Harry cuts it short so that they can get to the play, just making it in time for the start. Georges presence backstage reassures a nervous Isabel, while he is also implied to hit it off with her teacher. That evening, the strange family have a dinner to celebrate Isabels success, with Rosie noting that the play was actually based on their own lives.
Home Again (2017 film)
2017