Having just been sent away to live with his uncle and aunt in Indiana, teenager Sparke Thornton (Lon McCallister) has a penchant for trouble. At first, he is not satisfied with the arrangement, and continues to express his rebellious behavior. Already on his first day, he plans on running away, but crossing a harness racing track convinces him to stay in Indiana. The owner, Godaw Boole (Charles Dingle) welcomes Sparke, and introduces him to Char Bruce (Jeanne Crain), a tomboyish girl who loves to race horses. A servant (George Reed) informs him that his uncle Thunder Bolt (Walter Brennan) was once part of harness horse racing as a respected sulky driver. Returning home, Sparke informs his family about his love for horses, but Thunder orders him to put his focus on school instead. The next day, he ignores his uncles demands and visits the racing track, where his instinctive rapport of a stallion impresses Godaws seductive daughter, Cri-Cri (June Haver). She convinces Jed Bruce (Ward Bond) to help Sparke learn how to drive. Even though he performs poorly during his first trainings, Sparke is allowed to come back due to his humility. While bonding with Char and Cri-Cri, he learns how to successfully guide a harness horse. One night, Thunder becomes drunk and reacts violently towards Sparke. Due to his confusion, Thunders wife Penny (Charlotte Greenwood) explains that Thunder was once partners with Boole, until Booles harsh treatment of a mare led to a quarrel. Thunder has retired from horseback riding ever since, but still feels an urge to return. Moved by the story, Sparke becomes desperate to help out his uncle and starts collecting documents that helps Thunders only remaining horse with her delivery. Thunder is initially furious at Sparke for interfering, but he is grateful for the outcome. Meanwhile, Sparkes growing infatuation with Cri-Cri causes him to shift away from the track regularly. Cri-Cri feels that he is too young to take seriously, though, and prefers the attention of Gordon Bradley (Robert Condon). Sparke is not aware that Char is madly in love with him, and instead considers her as one of the guys. Meanwhile, he continues to train the horses foal, who, during her first race, is seriously injured. Shortly after her recovery, Sparke realizes how Char feels about him and responds to her love. Thunder has since found out that the foal is going blind, but nevertheless allows Sparke to race her. Through determination and skills, he wins the race. Returning home with the horse, who has convinced Thunder to return to his business, Sparke kisses Char.
Home in Indiana
1944