Two years after the raids of a gangs methamphetamine laboratory where his cover was blown, former DEA Agent Phil Broker (Jason Statham) and his daughter Maddy (Izabela Vidovic) have moved to a small Louisiana town where Maddys deceased mother grew up. Maddy gets into a schoolyard fight with a bully named Teddy Klum; when Broker comes to the school, Teddys hostile father, Jimmy (Marcus Hester), picks a fight with him and loses. Cassie Klum (Kate Bosworth) later asks her brother, a drug dealer named Gator Bodine (James Franco), to scare Broker. Broker fights off a few of Gators thugs at a gas station when they threaten him. While he and Maddy later go horseback riding, Gator breaks into their house. He deduces from old personnel files that Broker was the undercover cop responsible for the arrest of Danny T (Chuck Zito) in the raid two years earlier. Hoping to get a wider distribution for the drugs he manufactures, Gator tips off Danny T, who sends members of his gang to kill Broker. Broker finds Gators meth lab and sabotages it. He is captured and tortured by the same thugs he fought off earlier, but manages to fight them off and escape. As he and Maddy are preparing to leave, the gang members arrive. One of the gang members goes to the barn and engages in a fight with Teedo and almost beats Teedo but Teedo kills the gang member with a pitch fork. In the scuffle, Broker manages to kill most of the gang members and Maddy is kidnapped, but not before she calls the police. She uses her cell phone to call her dad and, from her descriptions, Broker realizes that she has been taken to Gators meth lab. Cassie arrives at Gators warehouse with news of the gunfight. When she discovers Maddy there, she accidentally sets off the booby trap that Broker has set up. The lab and much of the warehouse explode, and Gator watches his business go up in flames. A scuffle ensues and Gator shoots Cassie before fleeing with Maddy in his truck. Broker chases him in a police cruiser until they find themselves stuck on a bridge closed off by the sheriff. Broker beats up Gator badly, stopping short of shooting him in front of the police when he notices his daughter watching. Gator is arrested and Broker later visits Danny T in prison, letting him know that he will be around when Danny T is eventually released.
Homefront (film)
2013