Peter Beaupre, Alice Ribbons, Burton Jernigan, and Earl Unger are four internationally wanted hitmen working for a North Korean terrorist organization who have stolen a $10 million missile-cloaking computer chip. The thieves put it inside a remote control car to sneak it past security at San Francisco International Airport. However, a luggage mix-up occurs, causing a woman named Mrs. Hess to inadvertently take the thieves bag containing the remote control car while she is returning home to Chicago. The four thieves arrive in Chicago and later systematically search every house in Mrs. Hess suburban neighborhood to find the chip. Meanwhile, Alex Pruitt is given the remote control car by Mrs. Hess for shoveling snow, but she lectures him for scratching numerous itches. Alex returns home and removes his shirt to discover that he has chickenpox, and therefore, he must stay out of school. While recovering at home, Alex uses his telescope and discovers the thieves on look out for the chip. Alex fails to convince the police twice, so he decides to spy on the thieves by using his toy car and a video camera instead. The thieves discover it and take away the evidence, which results in a chase. Wondering what the thieves want with a remote control car, Alex opens it and discovers the stolen chip, and later informs the local Air Force Recruitment Center about the chip while asking if they can forward the information about the chip to the proper authorities. The thieves finally conclude that Alex has been watching them and decide to pursue him. As a snowstorm hits Chicago, the thieves block off the road to the house and Alice duct tapes Mrs. Hess to a chair in her garage and leaves the door open. By this point, Alex has rigged his house with booby traps and prepares to set them off with his pet rat, Doris, and his brothers loud-mouthed pet parrot. After their numerous break-in attempts are foiled by Alexs traps, the thieves must infiltrate the house and search for Alex. Alex flees to the attic and takes the dumbwaiter down to the basement, then runs outside and calls to Alice, Jernigan and Unger. The thieves see Alex and notice a trampoline below them. Jernigan and Unger jump to pursue Alex, but the trampoline gives way and they fall into a frozen swimming pool. Alice wriggles her way into the dumbwaiter chute, but falls down to the basement. Alex is cornered by Beaupre while trying to rescue Mrs. Hess, but scares him off with a bubble gun resembling a Glock. Meanwhile, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) arrives to Alexs siblings school, after being tipped off by the recruitment center. Alexs family brings the FBI to their house, where the police arrive and arrest Alice, Jernigan, and Unger. However, Beaupre has escaped to the snow fort in the backyard. The parrot drives the remote control car into the snow fort and threatens to light fireworks, which are lined around the inside. Beaupre offers a cracker, but the parrot demands two. Since he only has one, the parrot then lights the fireworks, and flees. Beaupre is discovered and arrested. In the epilogue, the Pruitts hold a celebration for Alexs success while their house is being repaired. Mrs. Hess, who befriends Alex after he saves her from freezing to death in her garage, attends the celebration with the FBI and the police. They are joined by Alexs father, who returns home from his business trip in New York City. The thieves are shown having their mugshot photos taken and have all contracted Alexs chickenpox.
Home Alone 3
1997