The story takes place in 1870. (Late in the movie, Hondo asks Lt. McKay when he graduated from West Point, to emphasize the lieutenants lack of experience. McKay says he was in the class of 69 and Baker suddenly remembers that the current year is 70.) At a remote ranch in the Arizona Territory, homesteader Angie Lowe (Geraldine Page) and her six-year-old son Johnny (Lee Aaker) come upon a stranger (John Wayne) on foot, carrying only his saddle bags and a rifle. The man tells them only his last name, Lane, and that he was riding dispatch for the US Army Cavalry. He had lost his horse in an encounter with some Indians. Angie tells Lane her ranch hand had quit before he had a chance to break her two horses for riding, so Lane offers to break a horse himself. He asks where her husband is, and she says he is rounding up cattle in the mountains and should return soon. Lane deduces from the neglected ranch that her husband has been away for some time, a fact she confesses is true. When night falls Angie offers to let Lane sleep in her home. Angie sees his rifle is inscribed "Hondo" Lane, who she knows had killed three men the year before. She attempts to shoot him, but due to the chamber being empty, Hondo is not hurt. He loads the chamber and tells her to keep it that way. Hondo tells Angie she reminds him of a woman from her past, and kisses her before he leaves. At the ranch, Angie and Johnny are beset by Apaches, led by Chief Vittorio (Michael Pate) and his main under-chief, Silva (Rodolfo Acosta). Angie is not nervous in their presence as they have never attacked her family before. This time, they begin manhandling Angie. Johnny emerges from the house with the pistol and shoots at Silva. As Silva recovers and approaches him, he throws the pistol at Silva. Vittorio is impressed by Johnnys bravery and makes him an Apache blood brother. Vittorio wonders where Angies husband is and tells her that unless he returns soon, she must take an Apache husband as the boy needs a father. Hondo returns to his Cavalry post, where he meets up with his friend Buffalo Baker (Ward Bond). He reports to his commanding officer that C troop, which was sent to gather and bring in settlers to the north, was killed by Apaches. It is clear to the Major (Paul Fix) that the Apaches are raiding and killing settlers. In a saloon, Hondo gets into a fight with a stranger, and beats him severely. Baker tells Hondo the man called himself "Ed Lowe" (Leo Gordon), and Hondo suspects he is Angies husband. Meanwhile, Vittorio shows Angie some prospective husbands from among his men. She insists she is still married, and he gives her a deadline: if her husband does not return by the time of the planting rain, she must take an Apache husband. Feeling guilty, Hondo leaves to return Angies horse. Lowe and a guide (Frank McGrath) follow Hondo, who camps near a river but leaves when he detects two Indians stalking him. Lowe enters the camp and he and his guide are attacked by the two Indians. The guide is killed, but Hondo shoots the Apache about to kill Lowe. Lowe is briefly grateful but turns his gun on Hondo in retaliation for the beating. Hondo is forced to kill Lowe. Hondo finds a tintype of Johnny on Lowes body, confirming his identity. Hondo runs into an Apache party, who pursue him through the desert. He kills several but they eventually capture him. They are torturing him to get information about the Cavalry when Vittorio appears. An Indian shows Vittorio the picture of Johnny, and Vittorio assumes Hondo is Angies husband. Silva declares the blood rite as Hondo had killed his brother. Silva stabs Hondo in the shoulder, but Hondo pins Silva to the ground, and gives him the option to take back the blood rite or die. Silva gives in. Vittorio takes Hondo to Angies ranch, and when Vittorio asks if Hondo is her husband, she lies, saving Hondo. The Chief warns Hondo to raise Johnny in the Apache way and leaves. Before the Apache party leaves, Silva ultimately gets his revenge against Hondo by killing his dog, Sam, and leaving the body in front of the porch as a message to Hondo that their feud is not over. While Hondo recuperates from his wounds, he shows her the picture of Johnny. She asks if Ed died well, and Hondo pauses before saying yes. Over the next few weeks, Hondo and Angie grow close. Hondo attempts to reveal the truth of her husbands death, but is interrupted by Vittorios return. The chief tells them that the pony soldiers will soon return. He asks Hondo not to join them and to keep the Indians location a secret. Hondo promises to do the former but not the latter, and Vittorio shows respect for Hondos truthfulness. Angie tells Hondo she loves him. The Army arrives at the ranch, commanded by ambitious but inexperienced Lt. McKay (Tom Irish) and accompanied by scouts Baker and Lennie (James Arness). McKay is determined to protect the settlers in the area by relocating them to the Army post and defend the area against Apache attacks. Lennie reveals he discovered Lowes body and matched the horse tracks to Hondos horse. He wants Hondos Winchester rifle in exchange for keeping quiet about how Hondo bushwhacked Lowe. Angie overhears Lennies demands. Hondo prepares to leave, but before he goes, he tells Angie the truth about her husbands death. Hondo also wants to tell Johnny, but she persuades him not to, telling Hondo she didnt love her husband any longer. She says it would be unkind to tell the boy the truth of his fathers death and that the secret wont follow them to Hondos ranch in California. Hondo responds to her emotional plea with an Indian word that seals a squaw-seeking ceremony, "Varlabania", which he tells her means "forever". The Army leaves to move further on into Apache territory. As promised, Hondo refuses to go with them, but tells Buffalo that McKay is leading them into a massacre. Buffalo knows, but he also knows that scouts such as he have been helping to train young West Point officers for many years. The Army returns after being ambushed by the Apaches, suffering heavy casualties. Vittorio had been killed, causing the Apaches to retreat so they can select a new chief. Realizing the danger they are in now that Vittorio is dead, Hondo, Angie and Johnny join the Cavalry and head to the fort. The column is attacked by the Apaches, now led by Silva, and form a wagon circle that barely holds together. Amidst a chaotic counterattack to save some stragglers, Hondo loses his mount and is attacked by Silva, but amidst the dust Hondo kills him. The Indians retreat to choose another chief. Lt. McKay says that General Crook will be arriving in the territory with a large force to pursue the Apache. Hondo sadly notes the end of the Apache "way of life," denoting that it is too bad as it was a good way. The movie ends with the idea that once back to the fort, Hondo, Angie and Johnny will continue on to Hondos ranch in California as a family.
Hondo (film)
1953