Viewers enter the Imagination Institutes theater for the Inventor of the Year Award Ceremony, in which professor Wayne Szalinski is receiving the award. Attendees are asked to don their "safety goggles" (3d glasses) in preparation for the scientific demonstrations. The show opens with the crew of the show searching for Wayne, when he suddenly flies on stage miniaturized and in a transportation device called a Hoverpod. He accidentally drops the control box and sends the machine flying off behind the stage out of control. Then the show starts with Christie Smithers introducing Dr. Nigel Channing. Dr. Channing welcomes the audience and introduces Wayne. The Hoverpod comes back and shorts out the neon Imagination Institute "Inventor of the Year Award" sign over the audience (at first only some letters are knocked out, leaving "NERD" spelled diagonally). Dr. Channing attempts to introduce Diane, Waynes wife, but she says that she has to go help find Wayne. She takes Quark, the familys dog with her. Dr. Channing then introduces Waynes sons, Nick and Adam. Nick, Waynes oldest son, has a pet snake named Gigabyte around his neck, because he didnt want to leave him in their van. Nick then demonstrates his fathers Dimensional Duplicator, a copy machine, to kill time while the crew searches for him. Waynes youngest son, Adam, puts his pet mouse, Photon, in the copy machine and quickly multiplies (in an animation designed by Curious Pictures). This does not go smoothly, and the audience ends up screaming with the loose mice running under their seats (which is really leg ticklers underneath the seats). To scare the mice away, Nick decides to use Waynes Holo Pet Generator, which first takes the form of a cat, which then transforms into a lion, by accidentally giving the machine too much power, in the audiences faces (designed by Kleiser-Walczak). While the demonstrations go awry, Wayne manages to use his shrinking machine to return himself back to normal size. He brings out the machine to demonstrate its uses by shrinking a familys luggage, saving space and money when traveling, hoping they will fit comfortably in the palm of his hand. Unfortunately, the machine goes out of control and shrinks the audience (plus Nick, who pushes Dr. Channing out of the way of the machines electrobeam). Wayne inspects Nick and the audience and, after making sure theyre okay, says the machine blew a fuse. He says that hes got some spare parts in his office to fix the machine (or so he hopes). Diane enters the room asking Wayne if everything is ok. Wayne responds with, "Honey, I shrunk the audience!" The viewers are then antagonized by obstacles such as Diane fainting upon seeing the tiny people and Nick, and Adam taking a picture of them with a blinding flash and picking up the theater so he can "show the little people to Mommy." The whole room is lifted right off its construction for a minute or two before Diane (who regained consciousness) and Channing persuade Adam to put the theater back where he found it. Then Gigabyte, much larger than the miniature audience, nearly eats them (as he had not yet been fed that day). Quark then chases him away with a few barks. Luckily, Wayne fixes the machine just in the nick of time and returns the audience and Nick back to normal size, but Quark is momentarily affected by the beam and then runs backstage out of sight. Wayne accepts his award and begins his speech, but he is interrupted by Nick warning of a "big, humongous problem." Diane then says, "Wayne, you didnt!" He then responds with, "Honey, I did! I blew up the dog!" The now giant Quark walks out onto the stage and the curtain closes while viewers hear the Imagination Institutes crew trying to stop him from crushing the place. He then finds his way through the curtain and sneezes on the audience for the finale (which triggers hidden water sprayers in the back of the seats). Diane then says, "Bad boy Quark! You know better than that!" As they leave, the audience can hear the commotion from backstage continue.
Honey, I Shrunk the Audience
1994