Wall Street trader Jerry Stafford (Fredric March) is a lucky man to have a very efficient and whitty secretary: Julia Traynor (Claudette Colbert), who manages nearly all spheres of her Boss life. Her fiancé Philip Craig (Monroe Owsley) works too in the Wall Street broker milieu. Friend Monty Dunn (Charlie Ruggles) hangs around in the different locations with a girl, Doris Brown (Ginger Rogers), defining her a little dumb, like the office of Jerry, the Wall Street location. When Jerry tries to kiss Julia during their lunch in the office, he realizes that he feels more than simple fun-relationship. But Julia wants a husband, young and full of hope. So Jerry leaves charging her to call Miss Maybelle Worthington (Avonne Taylor) to let her know he will pick her up in half an hour, and that she please dress nicely. The same woman, for which Jerry asked Julia to choose a bracelet, shortly before lunch. He leaves and the frost between boss and secretary is huge. Monty Dunn appears with Doris Brown at the restaurant, where Julia and Phillip are meeting after the flop of Jerry. After a while Jerry arrives with Miss Worthington, and they realizes that some of them knew each other. Julia and Philip decide to marry on Monday. Jerrys persistent demands at the back of her mind. Arriving at the office late she has to tell Stafford that she has married, so his proposal remains untaken. Jerry fires her, he couldt work with her knowing she is married to another man, while he wants her so much. After a year, on her first wedding anniversary Julia invites Jerry over. But he who had forgotten how lovely she its, falls again for her kissing her in the garden. Meantime Monty has told Philip that their investment in silk has lost. Philip tries to make a public scene, but Julia prevents it. Julia flies to Washington by train. Philip searches for her at Jerrys place. When he doesnt find her he thinks Jerry lies, and shoots him. Jerry somehow covers him. Julia is picked by the police in the train and brought back to New York. At Police Headquarters when Julia and Philip are left alone, Philip confesses all to Julia, who is terrified. For the Police recording devices its enough proof. Philip is arrested. But Jerry tries to do everything in his power during the trial not to incriminate him. Finally Phillip is free. But Julia has decided to leave Philip. When he comes home she has already packed her things. And then Jerry rings the bell, and while Philip thinks all was organized from him, they tell him, that they didnt see each other since the night when all happened. But they leave together, while Jerry talks about the south of France, where they wanted to go...
Honor Among Lovers
1931