Middle school student Roy A. Eberhardt (Logan Lerman) and his family have just moved to Coconut Cove, Florida from Montana. But Roy is mercilessly teased and bullied at his new school by Dana Matherson, until he accidentally breaks Mathersons nose while getting harassed on the school bus. Roy gets suspended from riding the school bus for three days and must write Dana an apology letter as a punishment. Roy slowly becomes friends with Beatrice "The Bear" Leep (Brie Larson), and her stepbrother, "Mullet Fingers" (Cody Linley). Meanwhile, someone is responsible for sabotage on a local construction site where a "Mother Paulas Pancake House" restaurant, overseen by corrupt regional manager Chuck Muckle (Clark Gregg), is about to be built. In order to catch the trespassers and prevent further vandalism, Officer David Delinko (Luke Wilson) has parked his police cruiser on the building site. Delinko falls asleep and an unknown prankster vandalizes the car by spray painting its windows black. The next day at breakfast, Roy and his parents read about the spray painted police car. The police chief then gives Delinko a small police scooter to replace the vandalized cruiser. Soon, Roy learns that in order to build the pancake house, they must first destroy the burrowing owls living on site. Mullet Fingers has been covertly pulling pranks to stop construction (including the tagging of Delinkos car), but Beatrice must take Roy into their confidence when hes badly bitten by guard dogs. Roy joins their crusade to save the endangered owls. Leroy Curly Branitt (Tim Blake Nelson), the beleaguered construction foreman, is trying to keep the construction schedule going, despite the presence of the owls, due to daily abuse from Muckle over the phone, and later in person. In the end, the trio reveals to Delinko and the rest of the town that there are burrowing owls on the lot. They then manage to get everyone to be quiet long enough for the owls to emerge, and Muckle is subsequently arrested by Delinko. Kimberly, the actress who plays Mother Paula, offers Coconut Cove the site as an owl preserve, in the interest of damage control, and publicly fires Muckle. Ultimately Roys parents decide to stay in Florida, Officer Delinko finally gets promoted to detective, Dana is sent off to military school, a disgraced Muckle does community service for months, Curly and Kimberly leave Mother Paula to raise dogs, and Roy continues to be friends with Beatrice and Mullet Fingers.
Hoot (film)
2006