College students Paxton and Josh are travelling across Europe with their Icelandic friend Óli. In Amsterdam, they get kicked out of a nightclub and visit prostitutes in a brothel. After, they return to their hostel to find theres a curfew and theyre locked out. A man in a nearby apartment, Alexei, invites them to stay at his place that night. He convinces them to visit a hostel in Slovakia filled with beautiful women. The three board a train to Slovakia, where they encounter a strange Dutch businessman who touches Josh on the leg. Josh yells at him, causing the embarrassed businessman to leave. When they arrive in Slovakia, they are impressed by the beauty of the town and the grandeur of the hostel and find their roommates are two beautiful women, Natalya and Svetlana, who invite them to the spa, and later to the disco. That night, at the disco, Josh goes outside but is attacked by a gang of local kids known as the "Bubblegum gang" and is rescued by the Dutch businessman, buying him a beer to thank him and apologise for his reaction on the train. Paxton and Josh have sex with Natalya and Svetlana, while Óli leaves with the desk girl, Vala. The next morning, they are surprised to see that Óli hasnt returned, and they are unable to contact him. They are later approached by a Japanese girl named Kana, who shows them a photo of Óli and her friend Yuki, who has disappeared as well. They get a selfie from Óli who told them he went home but they find it strange and unusual for him. Although Josh is anxious to leave, Paxton convinces him to stay one more night to have sex with the girls again. That night, Josh and Paxton are slipped tranquilizers. Josh stumbles back to the hotel room, while Paxton passes out in the discos storage room. Josh wakes up in a dungeon-like room, and is approached by a man who drills holes into his chest and legs. The man removes his mask, revealing himself as the Dutch Businessman, and tells Josh about his failed dream of becoming a surgeon. After Josh begs to be set free, the Dutch Businessman slices Joshs achilles tendons, and removes his restraints. Unable to walk, Josh attempts to crawl to the door, but the Dutch Businessman slices his throat with a scalpel, killing him. Meanwhile, Paxton wakes up the next morning and returns to the hostel. He gets frustrated with the desk clerk, who insists that he already checked out, and when he returns to his room, he is greeted by two women, who invite him to the spa in an eerily similar manner to Natalya and Svetlana. Paxton finds Natalya and Svetlana at a pub and asks them if they know where Josh is. Natalya tells him that Josh and Óli are visiting an art exhibit, and she agrees to take him there. They arrive at an old factory, and Paxton is horrified to find Joshs mutilated corpse being stitched together by the Dutch Businessman. Paxton is then ambushed by thugs and dragged down a hallway, passing by several rooms where other people are being gruesomely tortured. He is brought to a cell, where he is restrained in a chair and joined minutes later by a German client named Johann. Paxton begs in German to be let go. After severing two of Paxtons fingers with a chainsaw, Johann unintentionally removes his restraints as well. Johann charges at Paxton with the chainsaw but slips and severs his own leg. Paxton reaches for a gun and shoots Johann in the head. A guard enters the room but Paxton shoots him and escapes the cell. Paxton enters another room and hides in the bottom of a cart filled with corpses, and severed limbs. A butcher takes the corpses to the bottom floor to be incinerated, and Paxton bludgeons him with a sledge hammer. He then takes the elevator to the top floor and enters the dressing room, where he changes into business clothes, and finds a business card for the Elite Hunting club, an organization where rich people pay to kill tourists. He also meets an American client, who mistakes him for another customer, and picks up his gun. Paxton escapes the factory but returns after hearing cries for help. He enters another room and discovers Kana having her face and eye tortured by the American client. After killing the American client, Paxton and Kana flee in a stolen car, pursued by guards. While driving, Paxton sees Natalya, Svetlana, and Alexei, and runs them over, killing them. Paxton and Kana make it to the train station, but after seeing a reflection of her disfigured face, Kana leaps in front of an oncoming train and kills herself. This creates a distraction, allowing Paxton to board another train unnoticed. Once aboard, Paxton hears the voice of the Dutch Businessman. When the train stops in Vienna, Austria, Paxton follows him to a public restroom and throws the Elite Hunting card under his stall. When the Dutch Businessman reaches down to pick it up, Paxton grabs his hand and cuts off the same fingers he lost during his escape. He then breaks into the stall and nearly drowns the Dutch Businessman in the toilet, but allows him to see his reflection before slitting his throat and killing him. Paxton then leaves to board another train.
Hostel (2005 film)
2007