In 1892, Caucasian settlers Wesley Quaid and his family are attacked by a Comanche war party who proceed to kill and scalp him and shoot his three children, while his wife Rosalee manages to escape, hiding in a thicket. In Fort Berringer, New Mexico, Captain Joseph Blocker rounds up an escaping Apache family and brings them back to the fort. He is then called to the office of Colonel Abraham Biggs, who informs him of his final orders before retirement, direct from the President: escort dying Cheyenne war chief Yellow Hawk, along with his family, back to their tribal lands in Montana. Under threat of a court-martial if he refused to follow the orders, he reluctantly accepts, despite his history with the chief, who was responsible for the death of several of his friends and comrades. Blocker chooses the detail that will accompany him: his trusty old friend Sergeant Thomas Metz; long-time aide Corporal Woodson; and promising newcomer Lieutenant Kidder, fresh from West Point. Biggs also assigns to the detail a young French-speaking recruit, Private DeJardin. They begin their journey, but diverge from their path to investigate the charred Quaid house. Inside they find the emotionally scarred Rosalee, who, though initially hostile towards the Cheyenne family because of the previous attack, agrees to sleep in their camp after some coaxing from Blocker. The next day, shes convinced to bury her family and join Blockers detail until their next stop-over. They are soon ambushed by the Comanche party, resulting in DeJardins death and Woodson being seriously wounded. After this attack, Yellow Hawk convinces Blocker that it is in everyones best interest to unchain him and his family. The next day, the bodies of the surviving Comanche party, who had managed to flee during their previous encounter, are discovered dead. Blocker deduces that Yellow Hawk and his son, Black Hawk, killed them thanks to Metz allowing them to leave the camp during the night. After a brief stop at Fort Winslow in Colorado to drop off the wounded Woodson and Rosalee, Blocker is instructed to take disgraced Sergeant Charles Wills to be court-martialed and hanged at a stop along the way to Montana. Joining Blocker’s company to oversee Wills’s hanging are Corporal Tommy Thomas and Sergeant Malloy. Meanwhile, Rosalee decides to continue on with Blocker, despite being offered sanctuary at Fort Winslow until the next supply train at Christmas. One night, the women are abducted and raped by three fur traders as they wash dishes in the stream by their camp. The company, assisted by Yellow Hawk and Black Hawk, manage to track down the fur traders and slaughter them as they rescue the women, although Sergeant Malloy is killed. During a downpour, Wills manages to fool Kidder into sympathetically undoing his chains, only to kill him and escape. He is later tracked down and killed by Metz, who then takes his own life, succumbing to decades of PTSD. Blocker arrives with the dying chief at his tribal lands in Montana where he dies and is buried. The landowner arrives as the chief is buried and threatens to kill Blocker and the rest of the group for burying an Indian on his land. Blocker tells the landowner that the chief is not leaving the land, which results in a gun battle that kills Black Hawk, his wife Elk Woman, and his sister Living Woman, as well as Corporal Tommy Thomas, leaving alive only Blocker, Rosalee, and Black Hawks young son, Little Bear. In the final scene, Rosalee and Little Bear reluctantly depart on a train from Montana to Chicago, without Blocker, but at the last second Blocker jumps on the back of the train to start a life with the two.
Hostiles (film)
2017