Shortly after the events of Hostel, Paxton is suffering from nightmares as a result of PTSD and lives in seclusion with his girlfriend Stephanie back in the US. The two get into an argument when Stephanie denounces Paxtons paranoia as exaggerated and insufferable. She wakes up the next morning to find Paxton decapitated. An unmarked box (presumably containing Paxtons severed head) is then delivered to Elite Hunting boss Sasha, as he relaxes at an outdoor cafe. In Rome, three American art students, Beth, Whitney, and Lorna, are convinced by Axelle, a nude model they are sketching, to join her on a luxurious spa vacation in Slovakia. The four check into the hostel, where the desk clerk uploads their passport photos to an auction website, and American businessman Todd submits the winning bids on Whitney and Beth for himself and his passive best friend Stuart and they travel to Slovakia. Later that night, at the villages weekend-long harvest festival, Lorna discovers that Beth has inherited a vast fortune from her mother. Stuart and Todd go to the festival, where Stuart approaches Beth and the two share a friendly, albeit awkward, conversation where Stuart says her name. When she uncomfortably asks him how he knew her name, he said her friend told him. A strange local man tries to dance with an intoxicated Lorna but when she rejects him to go on a boat ride with a local named Roman, the strange man says "I could have helped you". In a secluded area, Roman kidnaps her with the help of two accomplices. Beth and Whitney leave the festival, and Axelle volunteers to stay behind and wait for Lorna. Whitney wants to have sex with a local named Miroslav, but Beth refuses to leave them alone together. The following morning, Lorna wakes up hung upside down, naked, with her wrists chained behind her back. A woman enters the room, and lies naked in a bathtub beneath her. She then uses a scythe to repeatedly slash Lornas back, and bathes in her blood, before finally slashing her throat. Meanwhile, Beth, Whitney, Axelle, and Miroslav head to the local spa to relax. Beth dozes off, and awakens to find herself alone and her belongings stolen. While looking for her friends, she notices several men approaching her. Fearing for her life, she climbs over the spa walls. While escaping, she is ambushed by a gang of violent street children known as the Bubblegum Gang but Sasha and Axelle arrive and save her. After Axelle and Beth leave, Sasha executes one of the children. While at Sashas mansion, Beth is again pursued by the men who chased her earlier, and realizes Sasha and Axelle are behind it. She tries to hide and discovers a room filled with human trophy heads (including Paxtons) before she is captured and taken to the factory. Having been notified via pager, Todd and Stuart are chauffeured to the factory. Stuart enters his room where Beth is strapped to a chair with a sack covering her head. After looking around the room in horror, he takes the sack off Beths head and explains what is going on. He unties her from the chair and almost decides to let her escape, but knocks her out and restrains her, having decided to take his anger for his domineering wife out on Beth. Meanwhile, Todd terrorizes Whitney with a power saw but loses his nerve after inadvertently scalping her. Horrified by what he has done, he tries to leave, but one of the guards reminds him that he is contractually obligated to finish her. Todd refuses, prompting the other guards to turn savage dogs loose on him, who maul Todd to death. The Elite Hunting representatives try to find someone else to finish off Whitney and inquire with other patrons, including an Italian man who is eating Miroslav alive. Stuart is approached by the representatives, and after discovering that Todd has been killed, he accepts the offer and beheads her. When Stuart returns Beth seduces him into releasing her from the chair. Stuart attempts to rape her, but she fights him off and chains him to the chair instead. She demands the code to the cell door from Stuart, but still needs to be buzzed through, which inadvertently summons Sasha and the guards to the room. Beth offers to buy her freedom with part of her inheritance, but Sasha explains that in order to leave she must also kill someone. When Stuart insults Beth, she cuts off his genitals and tosses them to one of the guard dogs, leaving him to bleed to death. Per the standard contract Beth is given an Elite Hunting tattoo, making her an official member. That night, Axelle is lured from the village harvest festival into the woods by the Bubblegum Gang, where she is surprised by Beth. After Beth beheads her with an axe the children start playing soccer with Axelles severed head.
Hostel: Part II
2007