Benjamin Jahveri (Fisher Stevens) is peddling sophisticated toy robots that he makes by hand on the street corners of New York City. One robot wanders away from his stand and makes its way into the office of Sandy Banatoni (Cynthia Gibb), a scout for a major toy company. Sandy tracks Ben down and orders 1,000 of his toys. Overhearing this offer is con artist Fred Ritter (Michael McKean), who smooth-talks his way into becoming Bens business partner in the deal and acquires the funding Ben needs from a loan shark. Ben and Fred move into a derelict warehouse which is the base of operations for thieves who are tunneling into a bank vault across the street to steal a set of jewels known as the Vanderveer Collection. The thieves attack Ben and Fred and destroy their equipment, preventing them from completing Sandys order. However, Bens friends Stephanie and Newton have sent Johnny 5, a human-sized sentient robot whom Ben helped to create. When the thieves return, Johnny defends against them, then sets up self-defense mechanisms should they try to break in. Johnny sets to work mass-producing the toys to meet Sandys deadline but later leaves to explore the city. He runs afoul of many New Yorkers, who are rude and unfriendly. However, he befriends one man, Oscar Baldwin (Jack Weston), who works at the bank across the street from Ben and Freds warehouse. Fred, having learned that Johnny is worth $11 million, tries to sell the robot. Discovering this, Johnny escapes into the city, is taken into custody by the police, and is placed in the stolen goods warehouse, where he is claimed by Ben. Johnny uses his robotic abilities to help Ben court Sandy. With time running out before the Vanderveer Collection is moved from the bank, the thieves lock Ben and Fred in the freezer of a Chinese restaurant. It is revealed that Oscar is the mastermind of the heist, and he tricks Johnny into finishing the tunnel leading to the vault. Ben and Fred get Sandy to save them, using polyphonic renditions of songs that Ben learned on his date with her as clues to their location. Having discovered the Vanderveer Collection, Johnny deduces Oscars true intentions but is attacked by the thieves and is severely damaged. Fred attempts to repair him by breaking into a Radio Shack and following Johnnys guidance. Johnny then locates Oscar and traps his accomplices. However, Oscar flees and steals a boat. Johnny uses a dockside crane to capture Oscar, who is later apprehended by the police. After Johnnys main power supply runs dry, Ben keeps him alive with a defibrillator. The film concludes with Ben and Johnny becoming US citizens. Asked about how he feels by reporters, Johnny, now painted gold, jumps into the air, shouting that he feels, "Alive!"
Hot Cars, Cold Facts
1990