Tensions between the Hutu and Tutsi peoples lead to a civil war in Rwanda, where corruption and bribes between politicians are routine. Paul Rusesabagina (Cheadle), the manager of the Sabena owned Hôtel des Mille Collines, is Hutu, but his wife Tatiana (Okonedo), is Tutsi. Their marriage is a source of friction with Hutu extremists, most especially Georges Rutaganda (Kae-Kazim), a friendly goods supplier to the hotel who is also the vice president and local leader of Interahamwe, a brutal Hutu militia. As the political situation in the country worsens following the assassination of the president, Paul and his family observe neighbours being killed, initiating the early stages of the genocide. Paul curries favour with people of influence, bribing them with money and alcohol, seeking to maintain sufficient influence to keep his family safe. When civil war erupts and a Rwandan Army officer threatens Paul and his neighbours, Paul barely negotiates their safety and brings them to the hotel. More evacuees arrive at the hotel from the overburdened UN refugee camp, the Red Cross, and various orphanages. As the situation becomes more violent, Paul must divert the Hutu soldiers, care for the refugees, be a source of strength for his family, and maintain the appearance of a functioning hotel. Paul drives to collect his hotel supplies from Georges Rutaganda and witnesses Tutsi hostages being treated violently by the Hutu militia. Georges explains to Paul that the "rich cockroaches" money is going to be valueless because all of the Tutsis will be dead. Paul expresses disbelief that the Hutu extremists will wipe out all of the Tutsis, but Georges replies: "Why not, we are halfway there already." With a driver, Paul returns to the hotel through the dark and thick fog, on a road that Georges recommends. At one point, Paul believes they have taken the wrong road and tells the driver to stop. When Paul exits the vehicle, he sees the riverside road is full of bodies and realises that Georges was correct in his estimation that half the Tutsis are already dead. The UN peacekeeping forces, led by Canadian Colonel Oliver (Nolte), are unable to take assertive action against the Interahamwe because the peacekeepers are forbidden to intervene in the conflict and prevent the genocide. The foreign nationals are evacuated, but the Rwandans are left behind. When the UN forces attempt to evacuate a group of refugees, including Pauls family, they are ambushed and must turn back. In a last-ditch effort to save the refugees, Paul pleads with the Rwandan army general, Augustin Bizimungu (Mokoena), for assistance. However, when Pauls bribes no longer work, he blackmails the general with threats of his being tried as a war criminal if he doesnt help. Soon afterward, Pauls family and the hotel refugees are finally able to leave the besieged hotel in a UN convoy. They travel through retreating masses of refugees and militia to reach safety behind Tutsi rebel lines. The films epilogue includes details in the credits of the number of Rwandan refugees at the Hôtel des Mille Collines whom Rusesabagina saved (1,268) and that he now lives in Belgium with his family. It also notes that Rutaganda and General Bizimungu were tried and convicted by the UN for war crimes in 2002, and adds that the genocide that ended in July 1994 left almost a million people dead.
Hotel Rwanda
2004