Outnumbered but determined, Wyatt Earp (James Garner), his brothers Virgil (Frank Converse) and Morgan (Sam Melville) and ally Doc Holliday (Jason Robards) confront and clearly get the best of the Ike Clanton gang in a violent shootout at the O.K. Corral in the Arizona town of Tombstone. Ike (Robert Ryan), a rustler, conspires to have the Earps charged with murder and tried in a court of law. When they are cleared, Virgil runs for Tombstone City Sheriff, but is ambushed and maimed by some of Clantons hired guns. Morgan elects to take the job in his brothers place, but, unlike his brother, he is killed. While seeing his family off to California for their safety, Earp kills Frank Stillwell, foiling an attempted ambush orchestrated by Clanton. An appointment as a federal marshal then gives him the authority to pursue the others involved in the attacks on his brothers. Doc Holliday, a gambler who has been on the wrong side of the law himself more than once, assembles a posse to support the pursuit. The men locate Pete Spence, "Curly" Bill Brocius and Andy Warshaw. However, in each case, Earp manipulates the circumstances to get his target to draw a weapon rather than simply surrendering, thus enabling Earp to legally kill them rather than merely arresting them. Holliday calls Earp out on his tactics but his strength gives out due to his tuberculosis and Earp transports him to a sanitarium in Colorado. With Clanton weakened, wealthy interests in Tombstone step forward to end the dispute, buying off the men supporting Clanton, which leads him to hide out in Mexico. They then offer to make Earp the top law enforcement official in the territory. Earp declines to give his answer to the offer immediately but tells Holliday that hes going back to Tombstone to accept the job. Holliday doesnt believe him and knows Earp is really going to Mexico to track down Clanton. Holliday again joins Earp on the mission, which ends with a final showdown in which Earp shoots Clanton dead. Earp returns with Holliday to Colorado and says goodbye to his unlikely friend, telling him this time he really is returning to Tombstone. As he leaves, though, Earp admits that hes leaving the Southwest altogether, intending never to be involved in law enforcement again.
Hour of the Gun
1967