A newly divorced medical doctor Sarah Cassidy (Elisabeth Shue), and her 17-year-old daughter Elissa (Jennifer Lawrence) move to a small, upscale town. They are disturbed to discover the house they are moving into is on the same street as a house in which a family used to live before they were massacred. The story of the massacre is told to them by the neighbors. Four years prior, a girl named Carrie-Ann Jacobson killed her parents, then fled into the forest and was never seen again, leaving her brother Ryan (Max Thieriot) as the sole survivor. Ryan now lives alone and is hated by his neighbors; Bill Weaver (Gil Bellows), a local police officer, appears to be Ryans only supporter. The mother-daughter relationship becomes rocky and Elissa starts seeing Ryan against her mothers wishes, finding Ryan to be lonely but a sweet boy. Ryan confides in her that he accidentally injured Carrie-Ann by allowing her to fall from a swing when they were little; he was supposed to be watching her while their parents were getting high on drugs. The resulting brain damage from the accident made her extremely aggressive, leading to their parents murder. Ryan is revealed to have been secretly taking care of a seemingly now-grown Carrie-Ann (Eva Link) in a hidden room. Carrie-Ann manages to escape and approaches a young couple in a car while brandishing a kitchen knife. Ryan catches up to her before she can reach the couple but accidentally kills her while trying to hide her. In grief, he goes to a diner, where he meets a kind waitress named Peggy (Jordan Hayes). Later, some unruly high school boys pick a fight with Ryan and he flees, and Elissa drives to his house and subdues a fire the boys started. She finds tampons in the kitchen garbage and explores the house with suspicion until she finds the secret room and is attacked by Carrie-Ann, who is revealed to actually be Peggy. Ryan restrains "Carrie-Ann" while frantically screaming at Elissa to leave. Elissa finds blue contact lenses and Peggy Joness wallet in the kitchen. Ryan has kidnapped the waitress and attempted to make her look like Carrie-Ann. Elissa tells Ryan she has to go home but Ryan hits her, knocking her unconscious. Elissa wakes to find herself tightly tied to a chair. Ryan reveals that Carrie-Ann actually died during the swing accident. He says his parents blamed him for it, and reveals that he was the one who killed them. He explains that he wants Elissa, but that he needs Carrie-Ann and cannot have both. Officer Weaver goes to Ryans house to look for Elissa, but Ryan stabs him to death. Elissa frees herself and tries to escape in Ryans car, but Ryan knocks her out with chloroform and traps her in his car trunk with Peggys body. Sarah arrives and is also stabbed by Ryan. Elissa struggles out of the car and ultimately shoots Ryan with Weavers gun. When she approaches him, he suddenly wakes up and grabs her wrist. When Ryan attempts to stab Elissa with the knife, Sarah strikes him in the head with the hammer. Elissa and Sarah move out; Ryan is placed in a psychiatric ward (behavior hospital). A flashback shows young Ryan in girls clothing about to blow out birthday candles. His mother calls him "Carrie-Ann" and when Ryan protests that his name is Ryan, not Carrie-Ann, she slaps him violently; its revealed that Ryan was the only child who killed the parents and Carrie-Ann is not real.
House at the End of the Street
2012