The film begins by showing the Beindorfs, Janet (Jamie Lee Curtis), Ned (Kevin Pollak), Grover (Kyle Howard), and Stacy (Amy Sakasitz), a supposedly happy family living a typical family life in the suburbs of Defiance, Ohio. It is revealed that Janet and Ned are not happy and in fact separating although they tell their children it is not a divorce. Grover and Stacy first try to recreate their parents honeymoon in the basement but this fails to bring any happiness into their relationship. The children then leave the basement telling their parents they must get another surprise for them upstairs. They go up, close the door, and nail it shut. They vow to keep it so until their parents work out their problems. The next day, Grover tells his best friend, Matt Finley (Mooky Arizona), what he has done and T.J. Krupp (Russel Harper), the wealthy local bully, overhears the conversation. Matt goes over to the Beindorfs house to look at the childrens work and is impressed. T.J. shows up to have a look and actually installs a newer, more secure door to keep the parents trapped. He and Matt then leave to collect their parents and bring them to the Beindorfs house to lock them up as well. Matts father, Vic (Wallace Shawn), never keeps a wife for more than two years and T.J.s father, Donald (Christopher McDonald), does not treat his wife, Gwenna (Sheila McCarthy), well. Matt also brings his bulldog, Cosmo, and two younger brothers, Teddy and Jimmy (who come armed with sleeping bags) and T.J. brings his boa constrictor, Spot. When Grover asks what is going on in response to his friends setting up camp at his house, T.J. replies with "Our parents could be down there for months!" Janet and Ned almost talk Grover into letting them all out but Donald (whos an attorney), threatens him with legal action. Grover finds out that his dream girl, Brooke Figler (Jennifer Love Hewitt), is also having parental problems: her mother, Cindy (Jennifer Tilly), acts like a teenager, going so far as to trying to hang out with Brookes friends. Grover invites her to lock Cindy up with the rest of the parents. The children begin to help their parents solve their problems. They try to find a way out of the basement while getting along and seeing what each of their problems are. The children also work out their differences with each other above. They eventually give in and up to the police and their parents are set free. It is revealed at the end that Ned and Janet reconciled and took a second honeymoon to Hawaii. Vic and Louises marriage lasted past the two-year mark and they are expecting another child. Donald and Gwenna got divorced though she later went back to law school and they opened up a law firm together. Cindy started dating other men instead of intruding on Brookes dates. Also, Grover and Brooke became boyfriend and girlfriend and she passionately kisses him in front of their classmates at school for a very long time, causing a slightly awkward moment for the bystanders. However, he concluded if his parents ever try to get divorced again he might think of locking them in the attic.
House Arrest (film)
1996