In New York City, a performance by noted violinist Paul Boray (John Garfield) is cancelled. Something has happened which has brought Boray to rock bottom emotionally. At his apartment, he seems to be about to give up on his career; his manager, Frederic Bauer (Richard Gaines), is angry that Paul has misunderstood what performing would be like and admonishes him for thinking that music could no longer be part of his life. Pauls more sympathetic friend and accompanist, Sid Jeffers (Oscar Levant), asks Bauer to leave and Boray says to Jeffers that he (Boray) has always wanted to do the right thing, but has always been "on the outside, looking in," and cannot "get back to that happy kid" he once was. In the past, young Paul (Bobby Blake) is choosing a birthday present in a suburban New York Variety store run by Jeffers (Harlan Briggs). He rejects as childish the suggestions of his father, "Papa" Rudy (J. Carrol Naish), a grocery store owner, but settles on a violin, which his father rejects as unsuitable; his price limit is $1.50. Esther, his mother (Ruth Nelson), supportive at this stage, buys the $8 violin for the boy. A transition from his faltering first steps to being a gifted young violinist follows. On 15 October 1930, he overhears his family expressing frustration about the state of their finances and about how he is not helping by working at a real job. His father is dismissive of Pauls chances for success and his brother, Phil (Tom DAndrea), is extremely negative concerning his own possibilities for finding any job at all. Paul resolves to go out on his own so he is not dependent on his family or appearing to be taking advantage of them. He finds a job with a locally broadcast orchestra in which Sid Jeffers is the pianist. At a party, Paul meets the hostess, Helen Wright (Joan Crawford), a patroness in a loveless marriage with an ineffectual, aging third husband, Victor (Paul Cavanagh). Helen is a self-centered, adulterous woman who uses men as sexual playthings and is initially baffled by the strong-willed and independent Boray. She is rude to him during the party, but the next day she sends him a gold cigarette case and a note of apology. "Papa" Boray is impressed, but Pauls mother is suspicious. At first, Helen seems interested only in Borays talent rather than in him as a person, though he is quick to press her on the second issue. He gains a manager, Bauer, from her connections, and is now in love with her. On the beach, near the Wrights Long Island home, he reaches out to Helen after a swim, but she runs away; later in the evening she falls off a horse and, as he tries to aid her, she resists, not wanting to be touched. He kisses her and she tells him to leave her alone, although she clearly is drawn to him and makes no effort to run away. Shortly, everything is different. As they lie by the ocean, Helen warns him he might be sorry love was ever invented, but admits she cannot fight him any longer, and is in love with him. Waiting at home, his mother confronts him, pointing out that he has missed a date with Gina (Joan Chandler), also a musician and his long-time sweetheart. Esther does not believe Pauls denials that he has any interest in Helen. She warns him to be careful and to think carefully about his future. After Pauls debut concert, Esther heard Victors putdown of Paul as a "savage". After a tour across America that takes several months, he has lunch with Gina. Sid arrives with Helen, who is immediately jealous and flees. Paul follows her and they end up at Teddys Bar. After Helen makes a scene by smashing her drink ("What Is This Thing Called Love?" is performed by Peg La Centra in the background), against a wall, she and Paul go back to her home where she expresses anger at being neglected and begs him to allow her to be more involved in his life. Paul points out her married status, but Helen shrugs this off, suggesting they are both old enough to do as they choose. He kisses her. At his new apartment containing numerous photographs of Helen, he confesses his love for her to his mother. They argue and his mother slaps him. Disquieted by rumors he has heard, Victor asks his wife for a divorce. He is suspicious of her real intentions, asking her if she really can change and be happy with Paul, but Helen insists this is first time she has known real love. At a rehearsal, Paul is passed a note from Helen claiming good news. She asks to see him immediately, but he crumples the note and continues with the rehearsal of the Carmen Fantasie (adapted for the film by Franz Waxman from Bizets Carmen). At Teddys Bar, Helen becomes increasingly drunk, and is unable to tolerate the house pianist performing "Embraceable You". Paul arrives to take her home. He repeatedly tells her he wants to marry her but she tries to dissuade him, even as she declares how much she loves him. She goes to visit Pauls mother and attempts to convey that she understands herself, what sort of woman she is, but that she genuinely loves him. Esther does not bend, however; she does not believe Helen has any good intentions and demands she leave Paul alone. Neither Helen nor Esther attend Borays next concert, his transcription of Wagners Liebestod. Helen listens on the radio, after talking with him on the telephone and telling him not to worry. She drinks, becomes more upset with herself and, recalling her husbands words, realizes her dissolute past can only taint Pauls future. She walks along the beach and then to her death in the nearby ocean; in her jaded mind, this is the only logical resolution to their problems. Later, on the beach, a distraught Paul is comforted by the loyal Jeffers. Returning to the films opening scene, Paul asks Jeffers to tell Bauer not to worry, he is not running away. The closing scene shows Paul walking on the street toward his familys grocery store.
Humoresque (film)
1946