Sylvester is sleeping on the ledge of a tall building. He is just outside the window of the laboratory and office of mild-mannered Dr. Jekyll, who is shown entering the laboratory, drinking a Hyde Formula and briefly turning into a monstrous, evilly laughing alter-ego. Sylvester hears the laughter and awakens startled, but when he looks inside the window, he sees only the re-transformed Jekyll departing the laboratory. Sylvester laughs it off and resumes his sleep. Suddenly waking up, Sylvester tries to catch some pigeons, but to no avail. He then pursues his prey, Tweety, along the buildings ledge. Tweety escapes inside the laboratory and jumps into the Hyde Formula bottle. Sylvester demands that Tweety show himself, which he does now as a crazy, giant evil bird that begins chasing Sylvester. For most of the rest of the cartoon, Tweety frequently switches between his usual, innocent self (which Sylvester chases) and the evil bird-monster (from which Sylvester runs away). After several back-and-forth chases (which includes Sylvester being tricked by the normal Tweety into running into an out of order chute for an elevator, as well as jumping out a window to escape the bird-monster form), Sylvester nabs a normal-sized Tweety. Unaware of the fact that the monster bird and his potential meal are one and the same, the cat locks himself in a small kitchen, throws the key out the window to make sure that Tweety "...dont get out and that goon dont get in," and begins to make Tweety into a sandwich. But while Sylvester is searching for some ketchup, Tweety changes back into his menacing, Hyde-like self and devours his adversary whole in a single gulp ("What? No ketchup? Well, I guess Ill just have to eat you without KETCH...!"). Sylvester frees himself and tries to escape the room. Just then, Sylvester awakens...to realize that this was only a nightmare and to see a normal-sized Tweety struggling to fly to the ledge of the building. Fearing the events of his nightmare are about to come true, Sylvester is convinced that Tweety poses a giant risk to his well-being. Sylvester cries out and runs through a brick wall to escape ("Help! Save me! Ah, ah, ah! Save me! Hes a killer! HELP!!!"). Two cats (variants of the cats in Birds Anonymous) observe his action and refer to it as cowardice. Tweety agrees on that.
Hyde and Go Tweet
1960