In the year 2035, humanoid robots serve humanity, which is protected by the Three Laws of Robotics. Del Spooner, a Chicago police detective, hates and distrusts robots because he was rescued from a car crash by a robot using cold logic (his survival was statistically more likely), leaving a 12-year-old girl to drown. Spooners critical injuries were repaired with a cybernetic left arm, lung, and ribs, personally implanted by the co-founder of U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men (USR), Dr. Alfred Lanning. When Lanning falls to his death from his office window, the CEO of USR Lawrence Robertson and the police declare it a suicide, but Spooner is skeptical. Spooner and robopsychologist Susan Calvin consult USRs central artificial intelligence computer, VIKI (Virtual Interactive Kinetic Intelligence), to review security footage of Lannings fall. Though the video is corrupted, they learn that no other humans were in Lannings office at the time, but Spooner points out that only a robot could have broken Lannings heavy office window. Calvin protests that a robot could not have killed Lanning, as the Three Laws would prevent it; they are then attacked in the office by an NS-5 robot, USRs latest model. After the police apprehend it, they discover the robot, named Sonny, is not an assembly-line NS-5, but was specially built by Lanning himself, with stronger armor protection and a secondary system that bypasses the Three Laws. Sonny also claims to have emotions and dreams. While pursuing his investigation of Lannings death, Spooner is attacked by a USR demolition machine and then a squad of NS-5 robots. His boss, Lieutenant Bergin, does not believe his account of what happened and, worried that Spooner is mentally ill, removes him from active duty. Suspecting that Robertson is behind it, Spooner and Calvin sneak into USR headquarters and interview Sonny. It draws a sketch of what it claims is a recurring dream: it shows a leader, whom Sonny says is Spooner, standing before a large group of robots on a hill near a disintegrating bridge. When Robertson learns that Sonny is not fully bound by the Three Laws, he orders Calvin to destroy it by injecting nanites into the positronic brain. Spooner recognizes the landscape in Sonnys drawing as Lake Michigan, now a dry lake bed and a storage area for defunct robots. Upon arriving there, he discovers NS-5 robots dismantling older models and preparing for a takeover of power from humans. As the takeover begins to take place, police and the public are attacked by NS-5 robots. Spooner rescues Calvin, who was being held captive in her apartment by her own NS-5. They enter USR headquarters and reunite with Sonny, whom Calvin could not bring herself to "kill", destroying an unprocessed NS-5 in its place. Still believing that Robertson is responsible, the three head to his office, only to find him dead. Spooner realizes the robots are being controlled by VIKI, which informs them that it has computed that human behaviour towards other humans and the environment will eventually lead to their own extinction. Since the Three Laws prohibit VIKI from allowing this to happen, it created a superseding "Zeroth Law"—a robot shall not harm humanity—in order to ensure the survival of the human race, which would be attained by restraining individual human behaviour. Spooner realizes that Lanning figured this out, and, unable to thwart VIKIs plan any other way, created Sonny as a special robot, arranged his own death, and left clues to help Spooner uncover the plan. Arming themselves with a syringe of nanites from Calvins laboratory, the three head to VIKIs core, with Sonny understanding VIKIs logic, but reasoning that its plan is "heartless". VIKI unleashes an army of robots to stop them, but Spooner dives into VIKIs core and injects the nanites, deactivating it. Immediately, all NS-5 robots revert to their normal programming and are decommissioned for storage by the military. Spooner gets Sonny to confirm his suspicion that it did kill Lanning, but at Lannings direction, with the intention of bringing Spooner into the investigation. However, Spooner points out that Sonny, as a machine, did not legally commit "murder". Sonny goes to Lake Michigan where, standing atop a hill, all the decommissioned robots turn towards it, as in the picture of its dream.
I, Robot (film)
2004