The Stooges are defense workers at the Heedlock Airplane Corp., a pun on the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation. They enter an apartment and break into a safe, which turns out to be a refrigerator. With the food they find, they prepare a late night meal of a single slice of ham, an egg, bread and coffee. Moe and Larry share the food, and Curly gets the bone and the eggshell. While eating, Curly breaks his tooth while attempting to eat the ham bone, resulting in a major toothache. Moe suggests he simply get some sleep, and in the morning the toothache will be gone. The boys situate themselves for bed in a conveniently placed three-tiered bunk bed. Curly naturally receives the top bunk and his ascent thereto is not without mishap. During the night, Moe unsuccessfully tries to alleviate Curlys pain but is unable to do so. While Curly does finally fall asleep, we are introduced into his dreams where he is still whining on about his current state of affairs. His persistent moaning and complaining about his toothache finally aggravate the other two into action. His fear of dentists leaves the Stooges with precious few options, leaving them to improvise their own brand of home dentistry techniques. These techniques include trying to extract the tooth with a fishing pole and line, tying the tooth to the doorknob and violently closing it, tying the tooth to a ceiling light fixture and jumping from a ladder, and lastly, firecrackers. At their wits end, Curly is taken off by Moe to the dentist, Dr. Tug (Lew Davis), who admits to being a butcher as an earlier profession. He then calls Curly and Moe in the room where patients get checked up, but a belligerent Curly makes the check-up difficult. Dr. Tug is exhausted from wrestling with Curly, so he asks his partner Dr. Yank (Bud Jamison) to complete the extraction. However, Moe tries to placate Curlys fears about dentistry by laying in the chair and simulating the procedure just as Yank, unaware who the actual patient is, enters the office and knocks Moe out cold with ether in a rag and pulls his tooth instead despite Curlys protests. Yank hands the extracted tooth to Curly and, upon learning that Curly is the real patient, runs out of the room. Moe awakens and finds Curly holding the tooth. This understandably angers him to no end and he takes it out on Curly, who attempts to defend himself. This flailing action in the dream translates to similar action in his sleep, causing him to fall through the entire bunk bed, causing it to collapse in a heap, on top of his two sleeping compatriots. This, in classic Moe fashion, angers him once again and he gives Curly a solid slug to the jaw. This dislodges the problem tooth and all is well. The boys fall asleep where they lie amongst the bed cushions and splintered wood.
I Can Hardly Wait
1943