A convict named Malcolm Rivers awaits execution for several vicious murders that took place at an apartment building. Journals belonging to Malcolm are discovered mis-filed in the case evidence, not introduced during the trial. Malcolms psychiatrist, Dr. Malick, and his defense attorney argue that the evidence was intentionally suppressed by the prosecution and move to stay Rivers execution, contending that Malcolm is legally insane. With this late evidence brought forth, a midnight hearing takes place, to determine if the journal is adequate evidence to grant their motion. Meanwhile, ten strangers find themselves stranded in the middle of a torrential rainstorm at a remote Nevada motel, run by Larry Washington. The group consists of an ex-cop, now limousine driver, Ed Dakota; Caroline Suzanne, an actress popular in the 1980s; Officer Rhodes, who is transporting convicted murderer Robert Maine; Paris Nevada, a prostitute; newlyweds Lou and Ginny Isiana; and the York family, George, Alice and their nine-year-old son Timmy who are in crisis because Alice has been struck by Eds car. With both ends of the road completely flooded, the group is forced to spend the night at the hotel, but an unidentified killer begins to murder them one by one. Caroline is the first to be killed. Ed discovers her head with some of her clothes in a laundry machine inside the motels laundry room. Rhodes and Larry join him shortly and the trio discover a room key marked with the number 10 inside the same machine where Carolines head is found. When they go to check the room where Rhodes had left Maine, they discover that Maine has escaped. The group is told to stay together while Ed and Rhodes search for Maine, though Larry sneaks off to steal Carolines wallet. Ginny becomes increasingly agitated, eventually fleeing to her room. She and Lou argue as he chases after her, but he is stabbed to death while she is hiding in the bathroom. Maine breaks into a darkened building, but when he looks outside he realizes he is in the diner, back at the motel, before being knocked unconscious by Ed and Rhodes. Ed and Rhodes tie up Maine to a post and put Larry in charge of guarding him; but Larry eventually sneaks off again, and Maine is killed. As the group confronts Larry, suspected of killing Maine, another room key marked with the number 8 is discovered near Maines body. The group go back to check Lous body to find a room key marked with the number 9 near his body. This leads the group to start thinking that they are being killed one-by-one in a countdown. A panicked Larry attempts to escape in his truck, claiming he did not kill anybody but accidentally runs over George, killing him. Ginny exclaims that the motels brochure describe native Indians being buried next to the motel and the bizarre deaths could be the work of some supernatural element. At the hearing, the contents of Malcolms diaries are revealed, indicating Malcolm suffers from an extreme case of dissociative identity disorder, harboring eleven distinct personalities. His journal contains entries written by his different personalities, each with distinct handwriting and writing style, as if they were the personal thoughts of several different people. His defense attorney argues that Malcolm is completely unaware of the crimes for which he is being executed, which is in violation of existing Supreme Court rulings. Dr. Malick is introducing the concept of integrating the personalities of someone with dissociative identity disorder, when Malcolm arrives, strapped into a wheelchair. At the hotel, the survivors tie Larry up, and he tells them his story - of taking over the hotel after finding the real hotel manager dead, of apparent natural causes, while leaving Vegas broke and desperate. It is discovered that Alice has apparently died from her injuries. A room key marked 6 is found by her body, so they check Georges body and find the key marked 7 in his pocket, even though both George and Alice died from clear accidents. Ed, coming to the conclusion that it is unsafe for them to stay at the motel any further, asks Ginny and Timmy to leave immediately. However, the two die when the car they seem to have boarded explodes. Surprisingly, after putting out the fire caused by the explosion, their bodies are nowhere to be found. Paris, yelling in hysterics at their unknown assailant, says that her birthday is the next week. Larry mentions that his birthday is also next week, on the 10th - Paris, Rhodes and Ed all reveal that is also their birthday. They check Larrys photocopies of the guests IDs and confirm that all 11 of them were born on May 10 - which is also Malcolms birthday, and the day he committed the murders. Sensing a headache, Ed hears a voice call out to him, as he listens he finds himself in different building, strapped to the chair, Dr. Malick calling out to him. Finding he is at the meeting to argue and postpone Malcolms execution, confused as to why hes being told of the crimes and Malcolm Rivers past. Dr. Malick gives him a mirror and shows Edward his own reflection, which is not his own. Dr. Malick further explains to the horrified Edward that he is in fact, one of the personalities that Malcolm Rivers created as a child to cope with the abandonment and abuse he was subjected to. Informed that one of the personalities is the homicidal template that went on a killing spree, Ed is instructed to "go back" to the motel to try and eliminate this identity. Ed awakens to find himself standing in the rain, looking at the motel from a distance. Paris finds convict-transportation files for both Maine and Rhodes in the police car. A flashback reveals that Rhodes killed the correctional officer transporting him and Maine, putting the officers body in the trunk, and then assumed his identity. Rhodes attacks Paris, but she is saved by Larry, who is then shot and killed by Rhodes. Believing Rhodes to be the murderous personality, Ed goes after him, and they end up shooting each other fatally, leaving only Paris still alive. When Malick demonstrates that the homicidal personality is dead, Malcolms execution is stayed and he is placed in a mental institution under Malicks care. In Malcolms mind, Paris has driven back to her hometown in Frostproof, Florida. As she tends to some soil in her orange grove, she discovers the room 1 motel key, and finds Timmy behind her. Flashbacks reveal that Timmy orchestrated all of the deaths at the motel, and made it appear that he had been killed with Ginny. Timmy kills Paris, while Malcolm strangles Malick, causing the van to swerve off the road and stop before Timmys voice repeats the poem one more time, now the sole personality of Malcolm Rivers.
Identity (film)
2003