Percival (Andre 3000) and Rooster (Big Boi) have been good friends since childhood. However, as they grow up, they each begin to live separate lives. Percival works at his father Percy Seniors (Vereen) morgue during the day, and works at a local club called Church at night playing the piano. Rooster becomes a singer at the club and a bootlegger; he also gets married to Zora (Williams), with whom he has five children. One night when Rooster shows up late to the club, everyone becomes upset and rowdy including gangsters Spats (Rhames), Trumpy (Howard), Ace (Love) and Rose (Paula Jai Parker) who have a business deal with the club and Rooster. Finally Rooster shows up and performs; Rooster, Spats, Trumpy and Ace talk about their deal. Spats wishes to get out of the business, and is willing to sell out to Ace. Meanwhile, backstage, a singer from St. Louis named Angel Davenport (Paula Patton) comes into the club and starts to complain about her train ride and her contract with the club. Angel is actually an imposter; she is really an aspiring singer named Sally B. Shelley, who stole the contract from the real Davenport (Labelle). Rooster and Rose have sex in a car in a warehouse until they hear people coming into the warehouse, Rose jumps out of the car, gets dressed and confronts Spats, Trumpy and Ace who have just arrived. Rose then runs off, Trumpy then shoots and kills Spats and Ace in order to get the business for himself. Meanwhile, Rooster runs into Trumpy while taking his family shopping and Trumpy explains that the debt owed by Ace is now his problem. He has to come up with this money by selling liquor at Church bought from Trumpys "suppliers". Rooster goes to Roses house to warn her, but she is already packed up and ready to leave. As Rose drives away in a taxi, she is being watched by one of Trumpys henchmen. Meanwhile, Rooster begins to have more problems at the club, and forces Angel to sing. Angel has an attack of stage fright, but Percival calms her by giving her a song that he wrote for her. The song is a hit, and Angel becomes an overnight star; she and Percival also fall in love. During a storm, Angel runs over to the morgue to be with Percival, and the two have sex. Roosterss wife Zora gets tired of his cheating and moves with their children to her mothers house. Angel gets a record deal in Chicago and asks Percival to go with her, but he reluctantly declines, as he feels obligated to his father. When Angel finds out that Percival knows who she really is, however, she pledges her love to him and persuades him to go to Chicago with her. Rooster devises a plan to buy liquor from bootlegger GW (Nunn) and his partner. One day, Rooster is making his rounds to pick up hooch from GW to load in a hearse borrowed from Percival, when he sees a car on the road that seems to be stuck. He approaches the car to see an old woman, Mother Hopkins (Tyson), and her grandchildren. Mother Hopkins tells Rooster that he is an angel and gives him a bible. Rooster walks into the old abandoned house of the two bootleggers and sees that Trumpys henchmen have beaten up GW and killed his partner. Rooster is caught and brought to Trumpy, and GW is shot and killed. There is a fight between Rooster and Trumpys henchmen. Rooster is shot but not killed due to the bible in his jacket and drives away in the hearse. However, Trumpy pursues him and shoots at him. Rooster escapes into the Church club, and soon after Trumpy arrives at the club. Before going to Chicago, Angel and Percival decide to make a stop at the Church club, Rooster and Trumpy have a dramatic fight in the club and shots are fired by Trumpy. Everyone in the club panics, and just when Trumpy is about to shoot Rooster, Trumpy is shot and killed by Percival. Percival then notices that Angel has been shot and runs to her aid. However Angel dies soon afterward and Percival begins to grieve. He then tends to her and prepares her for burial, dressing her up in a wedding gown and slipping a ring on her finger, implying that he was planning on marrying her. Afterward, Percival attempts to commit suicide by hanging himself in his room, but is interrupted when Rooster rings the doorbell. Percival is consoled and gives Angels Chicago bound ticket to Rooster, who is then reunited with his wife and children. Percival then begins to make records and tour in clubs throughout America and becomes famous. The film ends with pictures of Percival, and Angel in her coffin hung next to a picture of Percivals mother in her coffin at Percivals house.
Idlewild (film)
2006