Ruth, a nursing assistant, has a bad start to her day when one of her patients dies. When she returns home, she realizes she has been burgled. She reports to the police that the thief has stolen anti-depressants and anti-anxiety medication along with her grandmothers silverware and a laptop. When she asks Detective William Bendix for advice, he chastises her for leaving her door unlocked. Convinced the police will be of no help, she goes door to door, asking her neighbors if they saw anything suspicious. One of them, Tony, a heavy metal fan, becomes enraged that someone would target a neighbor. Frightened by his reaction, Ruth leaves; however, later, she returns to seek his help after the police refuse to follow up on a mobile app revealing the location of her laptop. Ruth and Tony go to the location, where a man accidentally knocks himself out in a confrontation with Tonys martial arts weapon and Ruth intimidates the owner into returning her laptop. He reveals he bought it from a fence who operates a resale shop. After getting the shops address, Ruth and Tony celebrate their victory by getting drunk and dancing. Investigating further the next morning, Ruth finds her grandmothers silverware and a man whose shoe matches a print left in her yard. Ruth gets into a scuffle with the fence when he demands she pay for the stolen silverware. After he breaks her finger, Tony knocks him unconscious, and they flee. After Ruth becomes frustrated that she was not able to confront the youth she suspects to be the burglar, Tony reveals that he caught the license plate number on the van he rode away in. Tony researches the tag number of the van online, revealing the owner of the van and possible thief as Christian Rumack. Ruth takes all her evidence to Bendix, but he scolds her for investigating her case without police assistance. Though he warns that she will endanger herself further if she continues to engage in vigilantism, Ruth and Tony impersonate cops at the address linked to the tag on the thiefs getaway van. A woman named Meredith lets them inside her mansion and answers their questions regarding Christian Rumack and the van. She reveals that the owner of the van, her husband Chris, is not the one who uses the van; it is instead her step-son, who was given the van by his father. She says Christian became disowned by his father after being jailed for drug-related offenses and befriending criminals he met there. Chris senior returns home abruptly with his bodyguard and angrily questions Merediths intelligence for allowing Ruth and Tony inside, as they are obviously not cops. As Chris bodyguard holds them at gunpoint, Chris wearily offers to pay them off. He is confused when Ruth refuses his money, and she says she merely wants to confront Christian about his behavior. Chris taunts her for her idealism, and, as they leave, Ruth vandalizes his lawn art, stealing a sculpture, to which Tony protests. Christian and his friends, Marshall and Dez, watch from the side, calling off their intended robbery of Chris and instead send Christian to confront Ruth about what she knows about them. He surprises her inside her home, and she crushes his windpipe in defense. As he staggers into the street, a bus strikes and kills him. Marshall and Dez kidnap Ruth, forcing her to take Christians place in their heist. Armed with an empty pistol, Ruth gains them entry into the mansion. Meredith and Cesar are held at gunpoint and told to summon Chris. Dez shoots Chris in the hand after he comes downstairs; his gruesome injury causes Ruth to vomit, and she drops her gun. Cesar grabs it, and attempts to shoot Marshall, who fires back at him. As the two fight, Cesar pulls off Marshalls mask, but is shot in the neck and dies. Marshall demands that Chris open the safe hidden in the fireplace that Christian told them about. Marshall opens it to find that there is no cash inside, only documents, and in the moment of calm Ruth protests that she is a hostage, using her unloaded gun as proof. She is ignored, and Marshall and Dez proclaim that they are "done here". Dez raises her gun to kill Meredith, but Ruth steps in front of her. Tony arrives, stolen lawn sculpture in hand, and strikes Dez in the face with a ninja star. When Dez tries to fire her gun at Tony, it backfires and explodes, blowing her hand off. Chris takes the opportunity to try to steal Marshalls gun, but Marshall accidentally shoots him through the head, killing him. Marshall points his gun at Tony next, but Ruth wrestles him to the ground. Dez stabs Tony several times in the stomach and then advances on Ruth. Marshalls gun goes off as Ruth tears at his hand with her teeth, and a stray bullet strikes Dez in the head, killing her. Ruth gains the upper hand over Marshall, bludgeoning him in the head and leg with the butt of his own gun, and helps Tony flee into the forest behind the mansion. Marshall recovers and chases them as Meredith flees the mansion unnoticed and alone. Ruth hides Tony under some brush, as he can no longer walk due to his wounds, and continues to run from Marshall. After a long chase and confrontation, Ruth attacks Marshall by throwing rocks at him, and his sudden movements cause him to be bitten by a water moccasin that Ruth had avoided earlier. Ruth leaves him to die from his wounds. Panicked that she cannot find Tony on her way back, Ruth sees her grandmothers ghost point her in the correct direction. Grateful that Ruth saved her life, Meredith neglects to identify her as one of the burglars to Bendix. Ruth returns to her daily life with Tony, who survives his wounds, and she joins his church.
I Don't Feel at Home in This World Anymore
2017