Chantal Stacy (Sandra Dee) is the daughter of Germaine Stacy (Micheline Presle), a former French showgirl, and John Stacy (John Lund), a conservative Boston antiques dealer, who met in Paris. Chantal was the product of their “soufflé-and-beans romance." Her father worries about her French part getting pregnant, before her Boston part gets married; a foghorn sounds every time a man gets too close to her. Her father gets a promotion and the family moves to New York City. Chantal gets picked up on Fifth Avenue by Eugene "Gene" Wright (Bobby Darin), a photographer who invites her to model for him. During Chantals first shoot, her father shows up to the set, punches Gene, after seeing the skimpy out Chantal is modeling in, and takes his daughter home. Chantal admits to her mother that she likes Gene and wants to continue modeling for him without Johns interference; with her mothers advice, she marries Gene. However, now that she is his wife, Gene refuses to let Chantal model, effectively making her a housewife. Shortly after their marriage, Chantal’s college friend Tina (Stefanie Powers) arrives in New York. A spoiled rich girl, she goes after Gene, and he responds positively to Tinas flirting tactics, making Chantal starts to become nervous about her marriage. When Chantal is at a loss, her mother gives her a book on “How To Train Man’s Best Friend” and advises Chantal that many men arent treated as well as pets. She begins to use the dog-training techniques form the book on her husband and to her delight, the results are astounding. Germaine later explains that the book was not really for Chantel to train her husband to obey her like a dog but rather, it has been teaching her how to live with her husband. Tina continues to stir-up trouble, by admitting in a drunken stupor that she is desperately lonely and envious of Chantal’s marriage and telling Gene about the dog-training book. In response, Chantals mother suggests another trick she used to keep her father interested: taking a lover. Chantal is shocked at first, but Germaine says that her lover, "Robert Swan," was only imaginary. She kept up the act by sending herself flowers and having her girlfriends call and hang up “if a man answers” the phone, resulting in making her husband jealous. All of this is confirmed when the girls ask John about his accounts. Before Chantal leaves to go home to try out these techniques, her mother tells her that whenever Gene confronts her, she needs to respond honestly; this would make him wonder if his wife is really telling the truth about having an affair (despite being told all about the trick, John still genuinely wonders if Robert Swan exists). All of this seems to work, after Chantal periodically sends herself two-dozen white roses and has her mom call in and click the receiver when Gene picks up the phone. Eventually, Gene goes to the florist to track down Robert Swan. Chantel goes to explain the entire situation, but Gene still pleads with her to end her affair, making her wonder why her mothers old tactics did not turn out as planned. To add to her confusion, Gene actually invites a "Robert Swan" (Cesar Romero) to dinner and then asks him to move in and share Chantal in a polyandrous relationship. Chantal, in disbelief, phones her mother about the situation. Shocked, Chantal’s mother and father come over to meet the fantasy man that has been sprung to life. Her fathers suspicions that Robert Swan is a living person all the more real. After snooping around Swans luggage and some thought, Chantal realizes Swan is actually Genes father, Adam Wright, acting the role of her (and her mothers former) lover. She and her mother decide to play along, turning the tables on the men for a few moments. Germaine founds out from John that he, Gene, and Adam were all in on the "Swan" act from the very beginning, to which she "admits defeat" and commends her husband for "being loyal to his sex." In the end, they all reconcile, and it is revealed that Chantal is pregnant, just as Chantals mother suspected.
If a Man Answers
1962