Bob Morrison (Brooks) is a successful composer of TV commercial jingles who has gotten rich from his work, allowing him to make a good life in New York City for himself and his two young children. However, Bob is frustrated with having to conform his music to the ideas of executives such as Lawrence (George Plimpton) who are often eccentric or rude. Bob secretly envies his old friend David (Kenny Karen), who has lived in relative poverty for years while pursuing a career as a classical pianist. Davids sacrifices are now starting to pay off with a concert at Carnegie Hall, and he is also happily married, while Bob has been a widower for some years (the death of his wife is strongly implied, although not shown or stated directly). Bob never got over his college girlfriend, Jennifer Corly, who slept with him briefly in college and then, saying she wasnt ready for a serious commitment, broke up with him and dated another man. Bob and his assistant Mario (Jimmy Breslin) travel to Los Angeles for one day to meet two movie producers for whom Bob hopes to score a film. While there, Bob learns that Jennifer is living in Malibu, calls her and visits her at home shortly before he has to leave. Jennifer (Shelley Hack) has become a painter, is still beautiful and unmarried, and seems attracted to Bob, even kissing him goodbye at the airport. Bob falls in love with her all over again. Back in New York just before Christmas, Bobs frustrations lead him to decide with his partner Steve Warner (Jerry Keller) to close down their jingle-writing business, thus putting Mario out of a job. However, before Bob can inform Mario, Mario makes a grateful speech thanking Bob for all Bob has done for him, leaving Bob feeling too guilty to speak further. Bob then learns the producers are seriously considering hiring him, but that they insist he come to Los Angeles to record music for the final audition. Bob reluctantly agrees to go, although he prefers to work from New York. Upon arriving, Bob calls Jennifer and invites her to his recording session and to dinner, but she abruptly turns him down. A dejected Bob goes to the studio, but cheers up after David arrives unexpectedly to play piano at his session, and then Jennifer arrives, having changed her mind. Afterwards, Bob confesses to Jennifer that he composed the love song recorded at the session many years ago with her in mind. Bob and Jennifer make love and spend time together, but Jennifer breaks up with him again, telling him that although she loves him, shes "not a forever person" and cant change. As she drives away, Bob learns that he got the film score job and that he will even be able to work from New York City as he prefers, meaning that he will not be returning to California. Heartbroken, Bob returns to New York and prepares to celebrate the holidays with his family and friends. While he is hosting a childrens Christmas party, Jennifer suddenly appears, having reconsidered the breakup, and Bob and Jennifer happily reunite.
If Ever I See You Again (film)
1978