Set in the English village Penny Green in 1939, the film focuses on Mark Sabre (Walter Pidgeon), an author and publisher who is unhappily married to Mabel (Angela Lansbury), a humorless and cold woman who usually spends her days gossiping with the townspeople. When Mark finds out his former sweetheart Nona Tybar (Deborah Kerr) is returning to Penny Green, Mark, unlike his wife, is delighted. Nona is married to a man named Tony Tybar (Hugh French), but is still in love with Mark. Mabel is aware of Marks feelings for Nona, and encourages him to spend time with her, thinking he will eventually decide with whom he wants to spend his life. As the war starts, Tony is called into the military, while Mark attempts to join up but a doctor finds a heart condition and prevents him. Nona leaves Penny Green in order to join the Womens Auxiliary Air Force. Life becomes quiet for Mark, until Effie Bright (Janet Leigh), who is disowned by her father for having become pregnant, turns to him for help. Mark helps Effie, and lets her live in his home while he looks for a better situation for her. This causes a great scandal. His boss had been looking for a way to fire Mark, and, as a result of the morals clause at his place of employment, he loses his job. Mabel leaves Mark, under the impression that Mark has fathered Effies baby. The townspeople soon denounce Mark and when Effie, who was already mentally under stress because the father of her baby, off at war, hadnt written her, and she is served with the notice that she is co-respondent in the divorce, so she commits suicide by poisoning herself. At the inquest to determine Effies cause of death, numerous witnesses give anecdotal incomplete evidence suggesting a sexual relationship between Mark and Effie. Nona appears, having just learned of Tonys death, and makes a short speech in support of Marks character. The inquest determines that Effies cause of death was suicide, though they censure Mark for his behavior. Returning home, a distraught Mark finds a note addressed to him from Effie. In it, Effie names her lover. It happens to be Harold Twyning, the son of one of Marks coworkers at the publishing company. Mark furiously heads to the company to confront the young Twynings father, but when he gets there, the man is grief-stricken, just having received the news that his son has been killed in the war. Mark decides not to share the letter with him, but, just as he is about to burn the letter, he has a heart attack, and passes out. Weeks pass as Mark convalesces. Nona returns to Mark, and they burn Effies letter together.
If Winter Comes
1947