The Kingdom of Malarias environment is devastated by a mysterious storm. Its ruler, King Malbert (Jay Leno), then blackmails the rest of the world to pay the town not to unleash the various doomsday devices invented by its Evil Scientists. They, in turn, are assisted by Igors, while the kingdoms annual Evil Science Fair showcases the scientists latest weapons. One Igor (John Cusack), however, who serves the somewhat tedious-minded Doctor Glickenstein (John Cleese), is a talented inventor who aspires to be an Evil Scientist himself. Among his inventions are his friends, Scamper (Steve Buscemi), a re-animated, immortal rabbit with a death wish, and Brain (Sean Hayes), an unintelligent robot with a human brain transplanted into a life support jar. When the malfunctioning invention explodes and decimates Glickenstein, Igor sees his chance. With Brain and Scampers help, he assembles a huge, monstrous being from human remains. When he brings her to life, however, he discovers that the "Evil Bone" he gave her was not activated, making her kind, friendly and feminine. Igor tries to convince her that she is evil, inadvertently naming her Eva (Molly Shannon). Igor attempts to brainwash Eva into becoming evil by bringing her to a brainwashing salon where people are hooked into a machine and shown monster movies for a few hours. Brain also gets the same thing in order to watch TV, but breaks the remote to his TV, so he takes the remote for Evas room and in an attempt to change the channel he inadvertently changes Eva’s TV channel from the horror movie marathon to a talk show whose topic of the day is the history of acting. She ends up watching the talk show for several hours, and upon leaving the salon, she can speak English and wants to be an actress. Igor then takes her back to the castle in the car. On the way back to the castle, Igors nemesis Dr. Schadenfreude (Eddie Izzard) and his girlfriend, Jaclyn (Jennifer Coolidge) try to steal Eva by using a shrink ray to shrink them all, but are shrunk instead. When Brain rambles on about how he changed the channel for Eva’s TV, Igor attempts to murder Brain with an axe. Scamper sarcastically tells Eva they’re practicing for a play and she believes that theyre performers. Igor decides to exhibit Eva at the science fair by telling her that the fair is an "Annie" audition, with a few differences. Dr. Schadenfreude learns of Evas existence and attempts to steal her. When that fails, he exposes Igor to King Malbert, who sends Igor to an "Igor Recycling Plant." Schadenfreude activates Evas Evil Bone and unleashes her on the Science Fair, where she destroys all the Evil Inventions whilst singing "Annie" songs. Scamper and Brain help Igor escape and they learn that Malbert had deliberately killed Malarias crops with a weather ray that made storm clouds so he could implement his "Evil Inventions" plan, thereby keeping himself in power. Rushing into the arena, Igor reasons with Eva to deactivate her Evil Bone and allowing her to regain her sweet personality, while Scamper and Brain power down the weather ray, which falls and crushes Malbert to death. Dr. Schadenfreude attempts to take power, but the citizens revolt upon learning of Malberts deception and Eva humiliates him. The monarchy has been dissolved and Malaria becomes a republic, with Igor as the new king. Schadenfreude is relegated to pickle salesman, while the annual Science Fair becomes an annual musical theater showcase. Igor and Eva live happily together as Malaria becomes a better place.
Igor (film)
2008