On the Fourth of July 1996 in Southport, North Carolina, recent high school graduates Julie James, her boyfriend Ray Bronson, Julies best friend Helen Shivers, and Helens boyfriend Barry Cox, drive to the beach to celebrate after Helen wins the annual Croaker Beauty Pageant. After a night of partying, while driving along a coastal byway, they accidentally hit a pedestrian. Max, who has a crush on Julie, passes by them on the road. Julie reassures Max that everything is all right, and he leaves. After some arguing, the group decides to dispose of the body, dumping it in the water. They agree to never again discuss what had happened. The following year, Julie returns home from her college in Boston for the summer. Since the incident, the friends have gone their separate ways. Julie receives a letter with no return address, stating, "I know what you did last summer!" Disturbed, Julie tracks down Helen, who has returned to Southport to work at her familys department store after a failed attempt at an acting career in New York City. The girls take the note to Barry, who immediately thinks Max is responsible. They confront Max on the docks, and Barry threatens him with a hook. Julie meets Ray, who is now working as a fisherman; he unsuccessfully tries to reconcile with her. Later, Max is killed by a figure in a rain slicker wielding a hook. Barry discovers a note in his gym locker saying, "I know." He is then ambushed by the same assailant driving Barrys car. Meanwhile, Julie researches newspaper articles which lead her to believe the man they ran over was a local named David Egan. Helen and Julie go to visit with Davids sister Missy at her home, posing as stranded motorists. Missy explains to them that their family was devastated by Davids death; she also mentions that a friend of Davids named Billy Blue also visited her to pay his last respects. Later that night, the killer sneaks into Helens house, cuts off her hair while she sleeps, and writes "Soon" on her mirror. The following morning, Julie finds Maxs corpse wearing Barrys stolen jacket in the trunk of her car. When she calls the others, the body is missing. Ray claims to have received a threatening letter, too. Julie goes back to visit Missy, who reveals David allegedly committed suicide out of guilt for the death of his girlfriend Susie in a car accident. Missy shows Davids suicide note to Julie. As the writing matches that of the note she received, Julie realizes it was not a suicide note, but a death threat. Meanwhile, Helen attends the Croaker Pageant to confer the title to the upcoming queen. During the ceremony, Helen witnesses Barry being murdered on the balcony. She rushes upstairs with a police officer, but finds no sign of the killer or Barry. An officer escorts Helen home, and stops to help a stalled truck; the motorist is in fact the killer, who kills him. Helen flees to her nearby family store, where her sister Elsa is closing for the night. The killer enters the store, and murders Elsa. Helen is chased to the third floor of the building, and leaps from a window to escape, falling to a long alleyway. She manages to runs toward the street, but the killer stops her, killing her by repeatedly thrashing her with the hook; her screams are drowned out by the sound of the parade. Julie finds an article mentioning Susies father, Ben Willis, and realizes it is Ben they ran over, moments after he had killed David to avenge his daughter. She then goes to the docks to tell Ray, but he refuses to believe her. Julie notices Rays boat is called Billy Blue and runs away. Ben appears, knocking Ray unconscious, and invites Julie to hide on his boat. On the boat, she finds photos and articles about her friends and her, and pictures of Susie. Bens boat leaves the docks, and he begins tormenting Julie, chasing her below deck; there, she uncovers the bodies of Helen and Barry in the boats ice box. Ray regains consciousness and steals a motorboat to rescue Julie. He ultimately uses the rigging to sever Bens hand and send him overboard. When the police question them, they deny knowing why Ben attempted to kill them, but they are relieved not to have actually killed anybody the previous summer, and reconcile. A year later, Julie is in college in Boston. As she enters the shower, she notices the words "I still know" on the mirror. Moments later, a dark figure crashes through it.
I Know What You Did Last Summer
1998