In Littleton, Colorado, a young Rachel Joy Scott, witnesses her father leave her family in the middle of the night. Her mother then struggles financially and encourages her children to pray for financial help. Rachel begins to become more spiritual in embracing her Christian faith. During her sophomore year at Columbine High School, Rachel becomes rebellious and begins sneaking out to hang out with her friends, Madison, Gabby, and Celine. During the summer, Rachels mother sends her to her cousins in Louisiana, where her spirituality grows. The next year, on the first day of school, Rachel witnesses the jocks picking on Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold. Eric then threatens to kill them. Later on in the year, Rachel begins to get involved with the head of the drama club, Alex Dickerson, and during a rehearsal, the two kiss. Later on, at a breakthrough meeting, Rachel meets Nathan Ballard, a homeless child whose mother is a heroin addict. With Rachels help, Nathan is able to be put up at another kids house. Nathan is grateful. One day, Rachels stepfather, Larry, finds a beer bottle from a party in the car, and Rachel loses her right to the car, becoming rebellious again. At the first performance of the school play, Nathan arrives and begins to fight with Alex, embarrassing Rachel. At a party that night, Rachel discovers Alex cheating on her with Madison. Rachel then begins to be bullied more often by others and even considers suicide at one point. However, with Nathans encouragement, Rachel turns back to her faith and inspires other Christian students to not give up hope, despite being bullied. Meanwhile, Dylan and Eric plan their revenge on the school. One day, Rachel tries to help Celine with family issues, but Celine says that shell never help anyone. At prom, she reconciles with Rachel, revealing that she has issues with her mother. Not long after, Alex tries to reconcile with Rachel, but she declines his apology. On April 20, 1999, Rachel reconciles with Madison, and the two make plans to hang out the next day. At lunch, Rachel has an emotional conversation with a fellow student, Richard Castaldo, about family issues. Rachel calms him by saying that everything happens for a reason. Just then, Eric and Dylan come out of the parking lot and begin shooting at Rachel and Richard. Richard is knocked unconscious, while Rachel struggles to get away. Eric and Dylan corner her, and Eric asks her if she still believes in God, and when Rachel tells him that she does, he kills her. The assailants then storm the school, killing 13 others; 12 students, and 1 teacher. Eric and Dylan then take their own lives. All of Rachels friends pay tribute to her after the shooting. At Rachels funeral, Nathan gives a eulogy, stating that he always loved her. Sometime after, Rachels mother finds a note on a dresser in their house, that Rachel had written years before. The note states that she will one day "touch millions of peoples hearts". The film closes with text saying Rachels story inspired millions and offers contact information.
I'm Not Ashamed (film)
2016