The film depicts the Battle of Inchon during the Korean War, which took place September 15–19, 1950 and is considered the turning point of the war. The protagonist of the film is General Douglas MacArthur, who led the United States surprise amphibious landing at Incheon in 1950. A subplot in the film involves an American couple who encounter difficulties in their relationship because of the ongoing war. Inchon begins with North Korean soldiers moving past the 38th parallel north into South Korea in June 1950. People flee into the countrys capital, Seoul. One of the displaced people is Barbara Hallsworth, a U.S. Army majors wife who lives in a village on the 38th Parallel. She is chauffeured to Seoul in a limousine, picking up five South Korean children along the way. After her chauffeur is killed, she drives them to a safe location called the Inn of the Sixth Happiness. Along the way, she shoots a North Korean soldier. Meanwhile, her husband, Frank Hallsworth, is attempting to break off an affair with a young South Korean woman, Lim. Her father is aware of his daughters affair with Frank and does not disapprove. Frank receives word of the invasion by the North Koreans, and he travels north in an attempt to locate Barbara with the assistance of army sergeant August Henderson. August encounters Barbara and fixes her vehicles battery, and then reunites her with Frank. Journalists, David Feld Park and Longfellow, are attending a press conference held by MacArthur in Tokyo. MacArthur, however, does not show. He agrees with his wife Jean, that he is the only person who can rescue South Korea from the invasion by the North Koreans. Hallsworth and his former lover succeed in turning on a lighthouse to signal 261 U.S. ships, and the South Korean womans father activates mines in the channel. She dies during the ensuing battle. The U.S. troops drive out the North Korean forces and the cheering people wave South Korean and American flags. The film proper ends with MacArthur reciting the Lords Prayer; after this scene, a newsreel of MacArthur is shown.
Inchon (film)
1982