Rose Elliot (Irene Miracle), a poet living alone in New York City, finds an ancient book titled The Three Mothers. The book, written by an architect named Varelli, tells of three evil sisters who rule the world with sorrow, tears, and darkness, and dwell inside separate homes that had been built for them by the architect. Mater Suspiriorum, the Mother of Sorrows, lives in Freiburg. Mater Lachymarum, the Mother of Tears, lives in Rome, and Mater Tenebrarum, the Mother of Darkness, lives in New York. Rose suspects that she is living in one of the buildings and writes to her brother Mark (Leigh McCloskey), a music student in Rome, urging him to visit her. Using clues provided in the book as a guide, Rose searches the cellar of her building and discovers a hole in the floor which leads to a water-filled ballroom. She accidentally drops her keys and enters the water to find them. After she reclaims the keys, a putrid corpse suddenly rises from the depths, frightening her. Rose manages to get away, but is being watched. In Rome, Mark attempts to read Roses letter during class. He is distracted by the intense gaze of a beautiful student (Ania Pieroni), who leaves suddenly; Mark follows, leaving the letter behind. His friend Sara (Eleonora Giorgi) picks up the letter, and later reads it. Horrified by the letters contents, she takes a taxi to a library and finds a copy of The Three Mothers. Sara is attacked by a monstrous figure who recognizes the book. She throws the book to the ground and escapes. Returning to her home, she phones Mark telling him to come and asks a neighbour, Carlo (Gabriele Lavia), to keep her company. The lights suddenly go out and both Sara and Carlo are stabbed to death by a gloved killer. Mark discovers the bodies and two torn fragments from Roses letter. After the police arrive, he walks out of Saras apartment and sees a taxi slowly driving by. In the back seat of the vehicle is the music student, staring at him intently again. Mark telephones Rose but is unable to hear her clearly. He promises to visit just before the connection fails. Rose sees two shadowy figures preparing to enter her apartment. She leaves through a back door, but is followed. She is grabbed from behind by a clawed assailant and brutally guillotined across the neck with glass from a broken window. Arriving in New York, Mark goes straight to Roses building, where he meets Carol (Alida Valli), the concierge, and some of the residents, including a nurse (Veronica Lazar) who cares for elderly Professor Arnold (Feodor Chaliapin, Jr.), a wheelchair-bound mute. Mark encounters the sickly Countess Elise De Longvalle Adler (Daria Nicolodi), who tells him that Rose has disappeared. After the two find blood on the carpet outside Roses room, Mark follows the stains. He becomes ill and falls unconscious. Elise sees a black-robed figure dragging Mark away, but the figure suddenly stops and gives chase to Elise. The figure eventually finds her swarmed with rabid cats in a room and stabs her to death. Mark staggers to the houses foyer where Carol and the nurse put him to bed. Mark asks Kazanian (Sacha Pitoëff), the antique dealer who sold Rose The Three Mothers, about his sisters whereabouts. However, the man provides no information. That night, Kazanian drowns several cats in a Central Park pond and falls into the water. Hundreds of rats from a nearby drain crawl over him, gnawing his flesh. A hot dog vendor hears Kazanians cries and rushes over, but proceeds to kill him with a knife. More strange deaths occur in the building, when Carol and Elises butler, John (Leopoldo Mastelloni), plot to take advantage of the Countess death by stealing her valuables. But a shocked Carol finds Johns corpse in Elises apartment, and drops a lit candle which starts a fire. Attempting to put out the flames, she becomes entangled in burning draperies and falls from a window to her death. Mark uses a clue from Roses letter to discover that beneath each floor is a secret crawl space. He follows hidden passages to a suite of rooms where he finds Professor Arnold who reveals, via a mechanical voice generator, that he is in fact Varelli. He tries to kill Mark with a hypodermic injection. During the struggle, Varellis neck is caught in his vocal apparatus, choking him. Mark frees him, only to be told by the dying man, "Even now you are being watched." Mark follows a shadowy figure to a lavishly furnished chamber, where he finds Varellis nurse. Laughing maniacally, she reveals to him that she is Mater Tenebrarum. She suddenly transforms into Death Personified. However, the fire that has consumed much of the building enables Mark to escape from the witchs den. Debris crashes down on the fiend, destroying her.
Inferno (1980 film)
2007