Ingrid Thorburn is a mentally unstable young woman in Pennsylvania. After discovering on Instagram that an unrequited friend of hers named Charlotte did not invite her to her wedding, Ingrid crashes the reception and pepper sprays her in the face. Ingrid undergoes a brief stay at a mental hospital. After being released, Ingrid learns of a social media influencer named Taylor Sloane while reading a magazine article. Beguiled by her seemingly perfect life, Ingrid comments on one of her photographs and receives a slight response from Sloane. With an inheritance of over $60,000 from her deceased mother, Ingrid decides to move to Los Angeles to become friends with Taylor. Upon arrival, she rents a house in Venice from Dan Pinto, an aspiring screenwriter. She visits Taylors regular hangouts and restaurants, and gets a makeover in her style. After running into Taylor at one of her favorite book stores, Ingrid follows her to her house and kidnaps her dog Rothko. She returns Rothko to Taylor, officially meeting her and her husband Ezra. Ingrid accepts their offer to stay for dinner, where they become acquainted. The next day, Ingrid borrows Dans truck to help Taylor move some items to her home in. Later that night, Taylor reveals she wants to buy a small house in Joshua Tree and convert it into a boutique hotel. Soon after, Ingrid damages Dans truck while driving under the influence. She returns late, causing Dan to miss a table read of his screenplay. Ingrid promises to reimburse him and take him out to dinner. Later that night, after bonding over their past losses, the two have sex and begin a relationship. The next day at Taylor and Ezras house, Ingrid meets Taylors brother Nicky, a recovering drug addict. Taylor dismisses her previous plans with Ingrid to attend a party with Nicky, furthering Ingrids disdain for him. Later, at a get-together at fashion blogger Harley Chungs house, Ingrid becomes envious of Taylor and Harleys relationship. Ingrid also begins to realize that several aspects of Taylors persona are fabricated. Nicky finds Ingrids phone with incriminating photographs that reveal her obsession with Taylor. He blackmails her, in exchange for money. As retaliation, Ingrid devises a plan to feign domestic abuse and blame Nicky. Telling Dan that Nicky beat her, she begs him to not tell the police in fear of what Nicky may do to him; she instead convinces him to kidnap and terrorize Nicky to keep him quiet. Nicky escapes his bindings and attacks Dan, leading Ingrid to attack Nicky with a crowbar. After Dan is hospitalized, Ingrid tries to call Taylor, but Ezra answers and tells Ingrid that Nicky has told them what happened. He relates that Taylor does not want to hear from Ingrid again and that she would have been arrested if Nicky had not been trying to hide his own crimes. Desperate, Ingrid moves into the small house next door to Taylor, using the last of her inheritance. Unable to pay the bills, she eventually loses power at the house. After noticing a nearby Halloween party at Taylors house, she dons a bed sheet and wig and crashes the party to charge her cellphone. When discovered, Ingrid berates Nicky, Ezra, and Taylor. Taylor responds by saying that because of her façade, the two were never truly friends, and suggests Ingrid seeks professional help. Bereft, Ingrid retreats to her home surrounded by lit candles and records a video for her Instagram page, confessing her loneliness before overdosing on pills. Ingrid survives the suicide attempt because Dan called emergency services. She wakes in the hospital to learn that her video has gone viral, and thousands of strangers have responded to her hashtag #iamingrid to show support. Feeling loved, Ingrid smiles.
Ingrid Goes West
2017