In a small Southern town, a school teacher, Bertram Cates, is about to stand trial. His offense: violating a state law by introducing to his students the concept that man descended from the lower life forms, a theory of the naturalist Charles Darwin. Cates is denounced by town leaders including the Rev. Jeremiah Brown. The town is excited because appearing for the prosecution will be Matthew Brady, a noted statesman and three-time presidential candidate. A staunch foe of Darwinism and a Biblical scholar, Brady will sit beside prosecuting attorney Tom Davenport, in the courtroom of Judge Coffey.  The teachers defense is to be handled by the equally well-known Henry Drummond, one of Americas most controversial legal minds and a long-standing acquaintance and adversary of Brady. An influential newspaperman, E.K. Hornbeck of the Baltimore Herald, has persuaded Drummond to represent Cates, and ensured that his newspaper and a radio network will provide nationwide coverage of the case. Rev. Brown publicly rallies the townspeople against Cates and Drummond. The preachers daughter Rachel is conflicted because she and Cates are engaged. The judge admires Brady, addressing him as "Colonel," as the governor had given Brady an honorary commission in the state militia. Drummond objects to this; as a compromise the mayor makes him a "temporary colonel" for the duration of the trial. Each time Drummond calls a scientist or authority figure to discuss Darwins theories, the judge sustains the prosecutions objections and forbids such opinions from being heard. Drummond grows frustrated, feeling the case has already been decided. When he asks to withdraw from the case, the judge holds Drummond in contempt of court, orders him jailed, and tells Drummond to show cause the next morning why he should not be held in contempt of court. John Stebbins offers his farm as collateral for Drummonds bail. (His son was a friend and protege of Cates who drowned after developing a cramp while swimming.) The Reverend had said the child was damned to hell because he was not baptized. This led to Cates abandoning the church, as he felt it was not fair that a child could not enter Heaven due to an action that was beyond his control. That night, mocking crowds go by the jail and then to the hotel where Drummond is staying. Drummond is trying to decide how to present his defense without his witnesses and states that he needs a miracle. Hornbeck throws him a Bible from Brady, stating "There are plenty in there." As Hornbeck pours some drinks and turns to Drummond, he is surprised by Drummond holding the Bible and smiling. Drummond calls Brady himself to the witness stand. Bradys confidence in his Biblical knowledge is so great that he welcomes this challenge, but becomes flustered under Drummonds cross-examination, unable to explain certain apparent contradictions, until he is forced to confess that at least some Biblical passages cannot be interpreted literally. Drummond hammers home his point — that Cates, like any other man, demands the right to think for himself, and those citing divine support as a rationale to silence him are wrong. Cates is found guilty, but because Drummond has made his case so convincingly, with the trial becoming a political embarrassment, the judge only fines him $100. Brady is furious and tries to enter a speech into the record, but Drummond persuades the judge to disallow it as the trial has concluded. As court adjourns, Brady tries to give his speech but most ignore him outside of his wife and his opponents at the defense table — Cates, Rachel, Hornbeck, and Drummond. As he becomes increasingly hysterical, he suffers from a "busted belly", dying in the courtroom. After the crowd has cleared out, Hornbeck talks with Drummond, wanting to use the Bible quotation from Reverend Browns rally, where Brady had quoted the "inherit the wind" verse because Brown was about to damn his own daughter to hell. Drummond quotes the verse verbatim, shocking Hornbeck, who states, "Well, were growing an odd crop of agnostics this year!" They argue over Bradys legacy, Drummond accuses Hornbeck of being a heartless cynic, and Hornbeck walks out, leaving Drummond alone in the courtroom. Drummond picks up the Bible and Darwins book (On the Origin of Species), balancing them in his hands before walking out with both of them.
Inherit the Wind (1960 film)
1960