The films plot starts in Italy during World War I, where the president of United States sends teams of Red Cross doctors and nurses to boost Italian morale and help care for the wounded. Volunteers drive ambulances and work in the front line canteens. Ernest Hemingway (Chris ODonnell), a 19-year-old boy, becomes an ambulance driver in Italy, although he wishes to become a reporter and writer. In an attempt to fight against the enemy, he ends up with a broken leg, trying to save a companion from the field. He is taken into a hospital, where an American nurse, Agnes von Kurowsky (Sandra Bullock), takes care of him. During the first night at the hospital, Ernest tells Agnes "I love you. Lets get married," while in a state of delirium. Ernests health becomes worse, and Agnes tries everything to save his leg from what she believes is gangrene. A successful operation returns Ernest to a path of recovery. As time passes by, the two become attached, even though Agnes has reservations about the affair because of their difference in age. Ernest becomes more and more attracted to the nurse as his health slowly returns. Eventually, Agnes and some other nurses need to be moved closer to the front. Because she cant find Ernest to tell him the bad news in person, she asks her friend to send him a letter. Ernest is shocked at finding out that she has left. While working on the front, Agnes receive a letter from Ernest telling her how much he misses her presence. After a few days, Ernest is finally able to visit Agnes, telling her that he has received new orders, which say he must return to the United States. He confesses his love for Agnes, asking her to meet him at a nearby hotel in order to spend their remaining time together and to promise each other daily letters, until they are able to get married. After some time spend on the front, Agnes is asked by one of the nurses, a good friend with her, to spend the weekend at their doctors house, Dr. Domenico Caracciolo, who seems to have feelings for Agnes. The three of them spend quality time together, the doctor showing them the surroundings of Venice. The letters from Agnes soon become less and less frequent, causing Ernest great concern. While showing her an unfinished hospital, Dr. Domenico proposes to Agnes. She hesitates, still thinking of Ernest. She decides to write him a difficult letter, telling him that their relationship must end, one of the reasons being the age gap between them. Ernest is devastated by this awful announcement. Eight months later, in New York, Agnes meets an old friend and ex-patient, Harry. She confesses that she did not marry the doctor, and finds out that Ernest is still angry at her. She decides to go to Ernests old cabin, near Lake Warloon. Still angry and proud, Ernest doesnt accept that their love story is over. The film ends with Agnes telling him "I love you" as she leaves the cabin, never to see him again.
In Love and War (1996 film)
1996