Marie (Anne Parillaud) is a very appealing modern-day vampire in Pittsburgh, with a moral code that limits her bloodsucking to the criminal elements of society. After feasting on mafioso Tony (Chazz Palminteri), she shoots him in the head with a shotgun to cover up the bite marks on his neck and to prevent him from coming back as a vampire. Undercover cop Joseph Gennaro (Anthony LaPaglia) visits the crime scene, but is taken off his assignment of infiltrating the crime family of Salvatore "Sal the Shark" Macelli (Robert Loggia) and put into protective custody by District Attorney Sinclair (Angela Bassett) for being witnessed at the crime scene by the media. The next night, Marie seduces Salvatore, who takes her back to his mansion for "dinner". Marie is warded off when Salvatore serves garlic mussels, and she tries to escape through the bathroom window, but finds it barred up. Salvatore attempts to rape her, but Marie manages to overpower him and drain his blood. But before she can finish him off, Salvatores limousine driver, Lenny (David Proval) intervenes and she is forced to flee. Gennaro investigates the scene and follows a trail of blood to a nearby church, where he finds and chases Marie. When Gennaro gets back to his car, Marie finds him and demands that he drive her to the morgue where Salvatore was taken. Meanwhile, Salvatore, now a vampire, awakens in the morgue and steals a car to drive to the home of his attorney, Manny Bergman (Don Rickles), being witnessed by police and reporters in his escape. Outside the morgue, Gennaro leaves Marie with his colleagues Dave Finton (Leo Burmester) and Morales (Luis Guzman) and goes to Bergmans house to pursue Salvatore. Marie escapes from custody and follows him. At Bergmans home, Salvatore drinks Bergmans blood and Gennaro is captured by Lenny and Jacko (Tony Sirico). The three mobsters take Gennaro to the docks and attempt to kill him using the compactor of a garbage truck. Marie arrives, saves him and kills Salvatores men, but Salvatore manages to escape. Gennaro and Marie attempt to pursue him, but the sun rises and Marie has to retreat into a motel. Salvatore hides in a meat factory that he owns. Bergman is transferred to a hospital but, after becoming a vampire, he is burned alive when a nurse opens the window and lets the sunlight in. In the motel, Gennaro and Marie confess their feelings for each other and have sex. The next night, Salvatore travels to a strip club that he owns and begins turning his men into vampires like himself. Gennaro and Marie begin searching all known Mafia hangouts for Salvatore. Finton and Morales track him down to the strip club, but Salvatores men kill Finton. Marie and Gennaro arrive in time to save Morales and kill Salvatores men by shooting them in the head. They chase Salvatore out onto the street, where he causes a collision between a taxi and a bus. Gennaro kills him by igniting him with the leaking gas tank of the bus and then shooting him in the head. Marie can no longer handle being the monster she is, and attempts to commit suicide by the sunlight, stating that she "died a long time ago". Gennaro talks her out of it, telling her that he loves her. Gennaro books her into a nearby hotel, and Marie states in a voiceover that he "made [her] feel alive".
Innocent Blood (film)
1992