The OLeary family are traveling to Chicago to start a new life when Patrick OLeary tries to race a steam train in his wagon. He is killed when his horses bolt. His wife Molly and their three boys are left to survive on their own. In town she agrees to prove her skills as a laundress when a womans dress is accidentally spattered with mud. She quickly proves herself and builds up a laundry business in an area known as "the Patch". Her sons are educated. One, Jack, becomes a reforming lawyer, but another, Dion, is involved in gambling. While washing a sheet, Mrs OLeary discovers a drawing, apparently created by Gil Warren, a devious local businessman. Her sons realize that it reveals that he has a plan to run a tramline along a street that he and his cronies intend to buy up cheaply. Dion becomes enamored with a feisty saloon-bar singer, Belle, who works for Warren. After a stormy courtship they become lovers. Meanwhile, Bob, the youngest OLeary son, who helps his mother, is in love with Gretchen, an innocent German girl. They meet in the barn watched by the OLearys cow Daisy and plan to marry. Mrs OLeary approves of the match, but expresses disdain for the loose-living Belle. Dion and Belle bribe the local politicians to set up a saloon on the street where the tramline will pass. Dion makes a deal to support Warrens political career and carve up business in the town. However, Dions dishonest practices lead to conflict with his brother Jack when one of Dions cronies is arrested for multiple voting. Dion later decides to support his brother rather than Warren in the election, convinced he can cut out Warren altogether and reign-in Jacks reformist zeal. He is increasingly attracted by the daughter of the corrupt local senator, leading to conflicts with Belle. Bob and Gretchen marry and have a baby. At a Warren election rally a fight breaks out, arranged by Dion. All Warrens election workers are arrested. Jack is elected mayor. He soon announces a campaign against corruption, targeting his brothers fiefdom in the Patch, which he intends to demolish. Belle and Dion separate when Jack asks her to support him. When he realizes Belle might testify against him, Dion asks her to marry him, making her testimony inadmissible. As mayor, Jack marries the couple, but knocks Dion out in a fist fight as soon he realizes he has been deceived. Mrs OLeary is told about the fight while helping Daisys calf to suckle. In her distress, she leaves a lamp in the barn, and Daisy knocks it over. A fire breaks out. Soon the whole of the Patch is on fire. Dion, Warren and their cronies are convinced that Jack has set the fire. Warrens men look for Jack, seeking revenge. Advised by Philip Sheridan, Jack plans to create a firebreak by dynamiting buildings to stop the fire reaching the gasworks, but Warrens gang try to stop him. When Dion learns from Bob how the fire really started, he rushes to Jacks aid. In the struggle Jack and Dion fight off the gang and set off the dynamite, but Jack is shot by one of Warrens thugs and then killed by a falling building. Warren attempts to flee but is trampled to death by stampeding cattle from the stockyards. Dion and Bob help to save Gretchen and the baby, while Belle rescues Mrs OLeary. They all manage to escape to the river. Belle and Dion are reconciled, while Mrs OLeary predicts that the city will be rebuilt and flourish after her sons sacrifice for its future.
In Old Chicago
1937