Several years before The Lambert Haunting, retired demonologist Elise Rainier reluctantly uses her abilities to contact the spirit of teenager Quinn Brenners mother, Lillith, who died a year prior. However, she urges Quinn not to try and contact her mother again after sensing a malevolent force. After auditioning for a school for the performing arts, Quinn sees a mysterious figure waving to her from the distance on the street. Distracted, she is accidentally hit by a car, having both of her legs broken in the process. Now stuck in her home with her father Sean and brother Alex, Quinn begins to experience increasingly disturbing paranormal phenomena, including seeing visions of a dark spirit wearing an oxygen mask known as the "Man Who Cant Breathe" - the same figure that caused her accident. Sean later tries to convince Elise, who like him is still grieving after the loss of her husband Jack, to help his daughter, but Elise declines, stating that her previous visits to the dark spiritual world of the "Further" made her realize that an evil spirit is hunting to kill her. However, she is convinced by her friend and former colleague Carl to continue using her spiritual ability, reminding her about her successful case involving Josh Lambert in 1986, and stating that she is stronger than any spirits or demons because she is living and they are not. Due to Elises refusal, Alex suggests Sean call on alleged demonologists Specs and Tucker, who have built a following on the internet. During their investigation, Quinns possession grows increasingly worse as she, now briefly possessed by the demon, breaks through her leg braces and attempts to attack Sean, Specs, and Tucker. Realizing that Specs and Tucker are scammers, Sean prepares to kick the duo out until Elise arrives. Deducing that the demons goal is to lure potential victims to "the Further" so it can eat their life force, Elise decides to enter the spiritual world with Specs and Tucker recording any activities and words she spells out. With the help of a spirit who likewise is a victim of the "Man Who Cant Breathe," Elise enters the Further and after a brief encounter with the evil spirit that haunts her (a mysterious "Bride in Black"), she meets with the spirit of Jack, whom she realizes is the "Man Who Cant Breathe" in disguise. After managing to briefly escape him, Elise returns to the material world and realizes that Quinn has to defeat him on her own. Though Quinn is at first at a disadvantage, Elise reads a message that the Brenners late neighbor had tried to tell Quinn of: that Lillith left her with a letter to read before she graduated High School, but never found it. Lilliths spirit then appears and helps Quinn fully take control of her body and defeat the "Man Who Cant Breathe," after which Quinn is finally able to escape the further for good. Elise leaves after giving parting words to the family, including words of encouragement from Lilliths spirit. Following the Brenner successful case, Elise decides to come out of retirement and work with Specs and Tucker. She arrives home and notices a figure watching her from outside. Thinking that it is Jack at first, Elise realizes that it is something malevolent before the Lipstick-Face Demon suddenly appears behind her.
Insidious: Chapter 3
2015