In February 1961, Llewyn Davis is a struggling folk singer in New York Citys Greenwich Village. His musical partner, Mike Timlin, has died by suicide; his recent solo album Inside Llewyn Davis is not selling; he has no money and is sleeping on the couches of friends and acquaintances. He plays The Gaslight Cafe one night, then gets punched out in the alley. Llewyn wakes up in the apartment of two of his older and wealthier friends, the Gorfeins. When he leaves, the Gorfeins cat escapes and Llewyn is locked out. Llewyn takes the cat to the apartment of Jim and Jean Berkey. Jean reluctantly agrees to let Llewyn stay that night. Jean tells Llewyn she is pregnant, with a possibility it is Llewyns child. The next morning, the Gorfeins cat escapes again. Later, Jean asks Llewyn to pay for an abortion, though she is upset she just might be losing Jims child. Llewyn visits his sister in the hope of borrowing money but realizes it will not be possible. Their conversation makes it clear that they are living in different worlds. She gives him a box of his belongings, but he tells her to trash it. She mentions that he could make money by going back to the Merchant Marine. On Jims invitation, Llewyn records a space travel-themed novelty song with Jim and Al Cody. Needing money for the abortion, Llewyn agrees to an immediate $200 rather than royalties. Llewyn is setting up Jeans appointment when the gynecologist informs him there is no charge, as a previous girlfriend did not go through with the abortion Llewyn had paid for, keeping the baby and moving to Ohio. While talking to Jean at a café, Llewyn spots what he believes to be the Gorfeins cat and returns it that evening. Asked to play after dinner, he reluctantly performs "Fare Thee Well", a song he had recorded with Mike. When Mrs. Gorfein starts to sing Mikes harmony, Llewyn becomes angry and yells at her. Mrs. Gorfein leaves the table crying, then returns with the cat, having realized that it is not theirs. Llewyn leaves with the cat. Llewyn rides with two musicians driving to Chicago: the laconic beat poet Johnny Five and the odious jazz musician Roland Turner. At a roadside restaurant, Roland collapses from a heroin overdose. The three stop on the side of the highway to rest. When a police officer tells them to move on, he suspects that Johnny is drunk and tells him to get out of the car. Johnny resists and is arrested. Without the keys, Llewyn abandons the car, leaving the cat and the unconscious Roland behind. In Chicago, Llewyn auditions for Bud Grossman. Grossman says Llewyn is not suited to be a solo performer but suggests he might incorporate him in a new trio he is forming. Llewyn rejects the offer and hitchhikes back to New York. Driving, he hits what he fears may be the same cat. Back in New York, feeling tired and out of options to make something of himself, Llewyn uses his last $148 for back dues to rejoin the Merchant Marine union, and visits his ailing father. Llewyn searches for his seamans license so he can ship out with the Merchant Marine, but it was in the box his sister finally trashed. Llewyn goes back to the Union Hall to replace it, but he cannot afford the $85 fee. Llewyn visits Jean and she tells him she got him a gig at the Gaslight. At the Gaslight, Llewyn learns that Pappi, the manager, also had sex with Jean. Llewyn, angered by this, heckles a woman (played by actual 60s folk musician Nancy Blake) as she performs, and is thrown out. He then goes to the Gorfeins apartment, where they graciously welcome him. There, he learns that the novelty song is likely to be a major hit, with massive royalties. He is amazed to see that their actual cat, Ulysses, has found his way home. Returning to an expanded version of the films opening scene, Llewyn performs at the Gaslight. Pappi teases Llewyn about his heckling the previous evening and tells him that a friend of his is waiting in the alley. As he leaves, Llewyn watches as a young Bob Dylan starts to perform onstage. Behind the Gaslight, Llewyn is beaten by a shadowy suited man for heckling his wife, the previous nights performer. Llewyn watches as the man leaves in a taxi and he bids him "Au revoir".
Inside Llewyn Davis
2013