In 1986, Lorraine Lambert summons demonologist Elise Rainier to help her son Josh, who is being followed by the spirit of an old woman. After investigating the house and encountering paranormal phenomena, Elise tells Lorraine that they must suppress Joshs astral projection abilities for his own safety. Twenty-five years later, Renai Lambert is under questioning about the death of Elise. She is warned that if her husband Joshs fingerprints are found at the crime scene, he will be prosecuted for Elises murder. The Lambert family relocate to Lorraines house as the investigation continues. Renai and the others begin to experience strange, seemingly paranormal activity in the house. Specs and Tucker visit Elises house and discover a videotape of the 1986 investigation. Upon reviewing it, they find someone standing behind Josh in the video. The next morning, Dalton tells Renai that he has been having bad dreams involving a woman in a white dress; as well as hearing Josh talk to an unseen figure in the hallway. Renai receives a call from the police stating that the fingerprints do not match Josh. The woman in the white dress appears and attacks Renai. Josh hears a voice urging him to kill his family. Lorraine visits Specs and Tucker and they show her the tape, enhanced to show an adult Josh as the figure standing behind the young Josh. They contact Elises former colleague Carl, who attempts to contact Elises spirit. They are told to find answers at an abandoned hospital where Lorraine used to work as a doctor. Upon arriving, Lorraine recounts the story of a patient named Parker Crane who was admitted for trying to castrate himself. Two days later, Lorraine saw Parker in an elevator. When Lorraine asked a nurse why Parker was out of his bed, the nurse explained that he had jumped to his death from the roof the day before. Lorraine and the group go to the Crane family home where they find a secret room. Inside they discover numerous corpses, a black wedding gown and newspaper clippings revealing Parker to be a killer referred to as "The Bride in Black" - who kidnapped and murdered young women while dressed as a woman himself. Joshs body begins to slowly deteriorate and Renai realizes he is possessed. Lorraine insists that they all get away from Josh. Carl arrives to drug him, but deduces that he is possessed by Parker. Parker begins to choke Carl to death. Carl awakes in the spirit realm, where he meets the real Josh, who has revealed that he is stuck in the Further for a long time, and together they go into The Further. Josh travels to Calis room, where an evil spirit is approaching his daughter. He struggles with the spirit but is overpowered. Elises spirit arrives and banishes the spirit from the house. It is revealed that these actions are what triggered some of the mysterious events in the first film, as time moves non-chronologically in the Further. In the real world, Josh, who is possessed by Parker, ambushes Lorraine and Renai. Renai and the children escape to the basement. Dalton voluntarily enters The Further to help his father. In The Further, Josh, Carl, and Elise try to track Parker down by revisiting Josh in 1986, with the young Josh showing the adult Josh where to find him. In Parkers house, the three witness Parkers mother, Michelle – the woman in the white dress – abusing him for acting like a male; and forcing him to dress and act like a girl. Parker had killed his female victims at the behest of his mothers spirit. Upon finding Michelle, she and Josh fight. Elise saves Josh and appears to destroy Michelles spirit, which stops the possessed Josh from murdering his family in the real world. Parkers ghost disappears. Carl and Josh escape, only to find Dalton, who leads them back to the living world. The Lambert family is finally reunited, with Josh and Dalton allowing themselves to once again have their memories suppressed by Carl. Some time later, Specs and Tucker arrive at the house of a family whose daughter, Allison, is in an unexplained coma. Unbeknownst to them, Elises spirit enters. She hears a crackling sound and gasps as she sees something standing in the shadows.
Insidious: Chapter 2
2013