After an introductory sequence set in Shanghai, the setting shifts over 200 miles away to the International House, a large hotel in metropolitan Wuhu, China ("Wuhu" also serves as a pun on "Woo-hoo!", an exclamation which at that time was sometimes used to comment that something was sexually naughty or gay). The unifying plot line concerns Chinese inventor Dr. Wong (Edmund Breese) soliciting bids for the rights to his "radioscope", a kind of television. Unlike real television, his Art Deco contraption does not need a camera; it can look in on events anywhere in the world as if it were a ground-penetrating electronic telescope, complete with audio. Prof. Henry R. Quail (W. C. Fields) is one of many people from around the world converging on the hotel, though he is one of the few not hoping to buy (or steal) Dr. Wongs invention, as he was intending to land in Kansas City in his autogyro but flew off-course. Other plot threads include four-times-divorced American celebrity Peggy Hopkins Joyce (playing herself) avoiding one of her ex-husbands, violently jealous Russian General Petronovich (Bela Lugosi); Tommy (Stuart Erwin), the representative of an American electric company, hoping to buy Wongs invention and finally wed his sweetheart Carol (Sari Maritza); resident physician Dr. Burns (George Burns) and his goofy aide Nurse Allen (Gracie Allen) dealing with a quarantine on the hotel; and the exasperation of the hotels fussy and frustrated manager (Franklin Pangborn). All of this is broken up by demonstrations of Dr. Wongs radioscope, as well as a floor show (featuring Sterling Holloway and Lona Andre) in the hotels rooftop garden restaurant. Dr. Wong is particularly eager to look in on a six-day indoor bicycle race in New York, but instead brings in performances by popular crooner Rudy Vallée, bandleader-vocalist Cab Calloway, and precocious torch singer Baby Rose Marie (who won enduring fame through real television, three decades later, playing Sally on The Dick Van Dyke Show). The droll Stoopnagle and Budd, now-forgotten stars of a popular network radio comedy show, are also accorded a brief segment. When the time comes to wrap up the proceedings, Tommy wins both the rights to the radioscope and his sweetheart, and Peggy Hopkins Joyce, having learned that Prof. Quail is a millionaire, quickly attaches herself to her next sugar daddy. The film ends with Prof. Quail and his new companion being chased as he drives his little American Austin automobile through several public areas of the hotel and down several flights of a fire escape before driving it back into the hold of his autogyro and taking off.
International House (1933 film)
1933