In Richmond, Virginia, Asa (Frank Craven) and Lavinia (Billie Burke) (née Fitzroy) Timberlake gave their two daughters male names: Roy (Olivia de Havilland) and Stanley (Bette Davis). The movie opens with the young women as adults. Asa Timberlake has recently lost his piece of a tobacco company to his former partner William Fitzroy (Charles Coburn), his wifes brother. Roy, a successful interior decorator, is married to Dr. Peter Kingsmill (Dennis Morgan). Stanley is engaged to progressive attorney Craig Fleming (George Brent). The night before her wedding, Stanley runs off with Roys husband Peter. Fleming becomes and stays depressed, but Roy soon decides to keep a positive attitude. After Roy divorces Peter, he and Stanley marry and move to Baltimore. Roy encounters Fleming again after some time, and she encourages him to move on with his life. They soon begin dating. Roy refers a young black man, Parry Clay (Ernest Anderson), to Fleming, and he hires him to work in his law office while he attends law school. Parry is the son of the Timberlake parents family maid, Minerva Clay (Hattie McDaniel). William Fitzroy, Lavinias brother and Asas former partner in a tobacco business, doted on his niece Stanley and gave her expensive presents and money, but was very upset when she ran off. He says he will throw Fleming some of his legal business if he agrees to stop representing poor, black clients. When Fleming refuses, Roy Timberlake is impressed and decides to accept him in marriage. In Baltimore, Stanley and Peters marriage suffers from his heavy drinking and her excessive spending. Peter commits suicide. Shaken, Stanley returns to her home town with Roy. After she recovers, Stanley decides to win back Fleming. While discussing her late husbands life insurance with Fleming at his office, Stanley invites him to join her later for dinner. When he fails to come to the restaurant, she gets drunk. While driving home, she hits a young mother and her young daughter. Severely injuring the woman and killing the child, in a panic, Stanley drives away. The police find Stanleys car abandoned with front-end damage and go to question her. Stanley insists she had loaned her car to Parry Clay the night of the accident. Minerva Clay tells Roy that her son was home with her all evening. Stanley refuses to admit her responsibility although Roy arranges for her to see Parry at the jail (he is being held as a suspect). Later, Fleming tells her he has already questioned the bartender at the restaurant and knows Stanley left drunk. Fleming plans to take Stanley to the district attorney, but she escapes to her uncles house and pleads for his help. Having just discovered he has only six months to live, Fitzroy is too distraught to do anything. The police arrive at Fitzroys house and Stanley leaves. In her attempt to escape, she crashes her car and is killed.
In This Our Life
1942