As described in a film magazine, in a small town lives Dr. Harvey Nesbit (Burton), who knows of the scandals of the community. His daughter Laura (Thurman) loves Grant Adams (Kirkwood), the editor of the local newspaper. Margaret Muller (Nilsson) arrives in town to teach at the school and takes lodging at Grants mothers house. She desires to dethrone Laura as a social leader, and decides to use Grant to obtain her desire. Laura, to arouse Grants jealousy, flirts with another man, and they quarrel. Laura returns to her boarding school, and when she returns after her term she discovers Margaret as the mother of Grants illegitimate child. Grants mother, to shield Margarets reputation, assumes the parentage of the child. As Dr. Nesbit knows differently, this places a barrier between him and his daughter. Grants mother dies and with Margaret, in pursuit of Henry Fenn (Crane), a young lawyer, refuses to mother her child. Fenns partner Tom VanDorn (McCullough) marries Laura, and Fenn marries Margaret. Eventually Lauras husband succumbs to Margarets wiles, their affair leading to the divorce of Fenn and Laura from the guilty couple. Grant quits his paper to become foreman at a coal mine. A terrific explosion happens and, while attempting to rescue his men, Grant is badly injured. He is taken to Dr. Nesbits home and Laura, tired of VanDorn, arrives at the same time. She nurses him back to health and the fires of love are rekindled. They decide to work to better the condition of the miners, but the issue of Grants parentage remains a barrier between them. A strike is called and "Hog Tight" Sands, the owner of the mine, engages a horde of strike breakers to run Grant out of town. In the melee VanDorn holds up Grants little son as a threat to make Grant give himself up, and the child is shot. Margaret then hates VanDorn and kills him, and then goes insane. On the deathbed of the child Grant confesses to Laura that the child is his, admitting this was a barrier between them. They come to an understanding and happiness.
In the Heart of a Fool
1920