In 2169, people are genetically engineered to stop aging on their 25th birthday. Everyone then develops a countdown on their forearm set for a year. When the clock reaches zero, that person "times out", or dies. Time has thus become the universal currency, and can be transferred between people or within "time capsules". Two major areas exist within Los Angeles: Dayton, a poor manufacturing area, and New Greenwich, where people have enough time to essentially be immortal. Will Salas is a Dayton factory worker living with his mother Rachel. He rescues a drunken man named Henry Hamilton from an attempted robbery by a gang of time-robbing thugs led by Fortis. Hamilton reveals to Will that the people of New Greenwich hoard most of the time for themselves to live forever, while constantly increasing the cost of living keeps poorer people dying. The next morning, Hamilton transfers 116 years of his time to the sleeping Will, before timing out and falling off a bridge. Raymond Leon, leader of the police-like Timekeepers erroneously assumes that Will played a part in Hamiltons death. Will visits his best friend Borel. Borel warns him that having so much time within Dayton will get him killed. Will gives Borel ten years in return for their years of friendship before meeting his mother to leave for New Greenwich. Rachel uses all but 90 minutes of her time to pay off a 2-day loan and finds herself short for a bus fare to get home. She urges the bus driver to lend her 30 minutes, but he refuses and advises her to run. She dies in Wills arms before he can lend her time. In New Greenwich, Will visits a casino and meets time-loaning businessman Philippe Weis and his daughter Sylvia. While playing poker with Weis, Will comes dangerously close to timing out but eventually wins more than a millennium in a flawless gamble. Sylvia, impressed, invites him to a party in the Weis mansion. Will buys a new sports car and drives himself to the party. After a quick dance, down at their private beach Will tempts Sylvia into a nude moonlit dip in the waves (her first brush with danger). Once back indoors, Will is surprised by the Timekeepers, there to arrest him. Dismissing Wills claim of innocence, Raymond confiscates all but two hours of his time. When asked why he is investigating a suicide, instead the Timekeeper insinuates he knew Wills father. Left with little choice, Will takes Sylvia as a hostage and drives back to Dayton. They are ambushed by Fortis gang, crash the car and are left with 30 minutes each. Will attempts to get some time back from Borel, but his wife Greta tells him that he has drunk himself to death, blaming Will for the stupidity of his generosity. Sylvia pawns her diamond earrings for extra time, and Will calls Weis to demand a 1,000 year ransom (to be paid into the time-mission for the desperate). When Weis refuses to pay, Will releases Sylvia anyway. She calls Weis from a pay phone, but they are ambushed by Raymond, whom Sylvia shoots in the arm to protect Will. They steal his car, and Will gives Raymond enough time to survive. Will and Sylvia team up and rob Weis time banks, giving the extra time capsules to the needy. After a decade reward is offered for their capture, Fortis gang tracks them down to a hotel room. Fortis challenges Will to a "time-duel", which Will wins through a trick used by his father. Will shoots the rest of the gang while they are distracted by Fortis death. The pair soon realize they cannot steal enough time to significantly change anything, as New Greenwich simply raises prices on Daytoners. They rob Weis personal vault and obtain a one-million-years capsule. Raymond chases them back to Dayton but is too late to stop them from distributing the stolen time. After chasing them to the citys outskirts, Raymond reveals that he came from Dayton and intends to stop other Daytoners escaping. He realizes too late that he forgot to collect his daily time allotment and times out. Will and Sylvia, each with just over a minute to live, race to Raymonds patrol car. Will collects Raymonds daily share and runs back to Sylvia in a scene reminiscent of his mothers death. This time, he saves her when her clock only has seconds left. TV reports show factories in Dayton shutting down as everyone has enough time and abandon their jobs to go to New Greenwich. Will and Sylvia continue robbing banks as part of their efforts to crash the system, while the rich attempt to cope with the sudden surge of people infiltrating their zone.
In Time (film)
2011