A Ph.D. student, Ian Gray, is researching the evolution of human eyes with Karen, his first year lab assistant, and Kenny. He has a particular hostility to superstition, religion and "intelligent design", which he hopes to discredit by filling in the steps of the evolution of the eye. At a Halloween party he has an encounter with Sofi, who is wearing a black face mask, where only her magnetic hazel-speckled, ash-blue eyes are visible. Fascinated, he photographs her eyes and then up at the warehouse party she later leads him into the washroom to have sex. However, soon after, she abruptly leaves without saying goodbye. Ian cant stop thinking about her. One day, synchronicities around the number eleven, amongst others, seem to mysteriously guide him to a billboard displaying what he recognizes to be Sofis eyes. Eventually he sees her on a train and approaches her, letting her listen to the music on his earphones. They begin a relationship, although his rationalism often clashes with her fey spirituality. One day they spontaneously agree to marry. They are told they need to wait a day for a license, and as they disappointedly walk out of the registry office, Ian gets a call from Karen at the lab. There has been an exciting breakthrough in their research. She has found a blind worm—Eisenia fetida—with the DNA necessary to develop an eye, just what theyd been looking for. Ian takes Sofi to the lab with him, though shes less pleased hes willing to do so on their supposed wedding day. He attempts to appease her by exchanging their wedding rings, to which shes reluctant as it possibly being bad luck. He states he doesnt believe in such, then places her ring on her finger anyway, whilst whispering that hes loved her forever. Back at the lab, Sofi is upset by the research theyre doing and an uncomfortable Karen leaves. After a short argument, Sofi kisses Ian and knocks over a bottle of formaldehyde, accidentally splashing Ians eyes. They call Karen, who helps him to the eyewash station and bandages his eyes, and Sofi takes him home. On the way up, the elevator in Sofis apartment building stops between floors. Ian wishes to hoist up Sofi but she refuses. Frustrated by her childish fears, he rips off his bandages and attempts to climb out himself. As hes pulling up Sofi, the elevator suddenly starts to move again. With blurry eyes, Ian thought he had pulled her out in time, but it was too late - Sofis bottom half being chopped off, she dies instantly in his arms. Ian goes into a deep depression, and Karen continues their research. One night Karen brings him a meal at his home. He begins to cry and she comforts him. They begin to kiss. The film flashes forward seven years. Ian has written a book on the evolution of the eye that he claims further debunks creationism. Ian and Karen are now married and Karen is pregnant. When their baby is born, the hospital takes an iris scan of baby Tobias eyes. The results are entered in the database and the program identifies the baby as a certain Paul Edgar Dairy. The nurse re-enters the results, thinking it a glitch, and the problem disappears. A few months later, a Doctor Simmons calls, claiming that a test of the babys urine may indicate an elevated risk of autism and recommending a further test. But Ian and Karen become suspicious during this unconventional test and decide to investigate Doctor Simmons. They find that she is in fact one of a very few people with full access to the iris scan database. Ian tracks some pictures from this test to Idaho where he stumbles on the family of Paul Edgar Dairy, who apparently died just before their baby was conceived. Ians former research partner, Kenny, is the creator of the iris database. He helps Ian and Karen run some photos of deceased family members, plus various other peoples eyes through the database to see if there are any other recent matches. They get a hit for Sofi, whose iris scan matches one made in India just three months prior, years after Sofis death. Ian goes to India to find the subject of this scan. There he finds Priya, the head of the community centre where the iris scan was made. Priya recognizes Sofis eyes as those of a girl she knows, named Salomina, and agrees to help. Ian and Priya begin searching for Salomina, who is an orphan and seems to have disappeared into the crowds of the city. Ian tries putting up a billboard showing Sofis eyes and offering a cash reward. He is besieged with calls but none are credible. Weeks later he comes across a little girl staring at the billboard. It is Salomina. He takes her back to his hotel and contacts Karen over Skype. The two of them conduct a simple test designed to reveal if Salomina might be somehow linked with Sofi. At first Salomina is uncannily accurate, but in the end her results are within the probable range of random chance. Karen asks him how he feels about this and he says he feels rather foolish. Feeling somewhat disheartened, Ian then leaves the hotel room with Salomina to take her to Priya but when they reach the elevator, the moment the doors open Salomina panics and throws herself into his arms, too frightened to enter. Staring into each others eyes with a certain recognition, they then cling to each other, tears streaming down boths faces. He picks her up and takes her down the stairs instead, with Salomina tightly gripped around his neck, till they walk out the dark interior and step out into the light. A post-credits scene shows Dr. Simmons scanning the irises of famous deceased figures, apparently finding many such matches.
I Origins
2014