In 1959, Ip Man is settling into his low-profile life in Hong Kong. His elder son, Ip Chun, has returned to Foshan to study, leaving him with his younger son Ip Ching and his wife Cheung Wing-sing in Hong Kong. A young Bruce Lee visits Ip and asks to become one of his students, saying he would be his greatest disciple. After Lee demonstrates his speed, Ip neither accepts nor rejects him, but insinuates for him to leave by opening the door. After Ip Ching gets into a fight with his schoolmate, Cheung Fung, their teacher, Miss Wong, asks the parents to come to the school, though only the Ips arrive. As an apology, the Ip family invite Cheung Fung to their home for dinner. At Ips house, Cheung Fung displays rudimentary yet impressive Wing Chun skills. When Ip asks the boy who his mentor is, he says that it is his father, Cheung Tin-chi, a poor rickshaw puller who shows up to pick up his son shortly after. Although he interacts cordially with Ip Man, he secretly envies Ips wealth and popularity and seeks to surpass him, participating successfully in underground fights to earn extra money. The organiser, Ma King-sang, a local triad leader, also works for Frank, an American property developer and highly proficient boxer. Frank orders Ma to acquire a piece of land occupied by the school where Ip Ching and Cheung Fung study. Ma asks for a month for it to be done, but is threatened into assuring that it will be done within two weeks. The next day, when Ip goes to pick up his son from school, he witnesses Ma and his men coercing and beating the headmaster, who refuses to sell them the school. Ip interferes and restrains Ma, but is forced to let him go. Ip seeks help from Sergeant "Fat Po", a close friend of his and a local police detective. Fat Po agrees to help Ip, but claims a shortage of manpower and influence. Ip then decides to guard the school alongside his students. That night, they fend off an attack by Mas men, who attempt to set fire to the school and kidnap the headmaster. Cheung, who happens to pass by, helps fight off the invaders and rescues the headmaster. Cheungs skills impress Ip, and he thanks Cheung for his help. Tin Ngo-san, a local martial arts master and Mas former mentor, is enraged by Mas unscrupulous acts, and accompanied by Ip, confronts Ma at the Hong Kong shipyard where he humiliates him in front of his men. Ma retaliates with a hidden knife, but Ip is able to stop him. Fat Po arrives and keeps the situation at bay, but Ip eventually lets Ma go again to de-escalate the situation. Ma finds Cheung and offers him a large sum of money to get revenge against Tin on his behalf. Desperate to open his own martial arts school, Cheung accepts the offer and is able to put Tin in the hospital. Ip receives a call from the hospital and visits Tin. Upon learning that Tin did not call him, Ip realises that it was a set-up by Ma to lure him away from the school, so that his gang could kidnap some of the students, including Ip Ching and Cheung Fung. Ip arrives alone at Mas shipyard, where Ma holds Ip Ching at knife point and threatens to sell the children into slavery if the headmaster refuses to surrender the school. Upon learning that his son was also kidnapped, Cheung arrives and is allowed to leave with his son due to being an associate; but after his son tells him that they still have his friends, he returns and fights alongside Ip. Ip and Cheung are able to hold their own until a troop of policemen led by Fat Po comes to arrest the gang, while Ma flees. After the incident, Frank dismisses Ma and sends a Thai boxer to go after Ip instead. Returning home, Ip learns that Wing-sing has been diagnosed with cancer and may only live another six months. While taking Wing-sing home from a medicine shop, Ip is attacked in an elevator by the Thai boxer, who is defeated before the elevator reaches the ground floor. Fat Po later tells Ip about Frank, who wants to eliminate Ip at all costs for obstructing his plans. Ip decides to confront Frank in his office, where he engages Ip in a three-minute fight, promising to leave him alone if he can just last the three minutes. Ip is initially overwhelmed by his opponents sheer muscle and force but begins turning the tide when he attacks Franks lower half and they fight to a draw after the three minutes pass. Ip leaves the office and Frank keeps his promise, seemingly impressed. Cheung, with the money he obtained from Ma earlier, opens his martial arts school, and claims that his Wing Chun is genuine while Ips is not. Cheung proceeds to build his reputation by defeating a number of martial arts masters. Finally, he challenges Ip to a battle that will decide who is the true Grandmaster of Wing Chun. Meanwhile, Ip spends more time with his ailing wife, ashamedly feeling that he had neglected her earlier. On the day of the match, Ip chooses not to attend, but instead goes out dancing with Wing-sing, instructed by Bruce Lee, whom Ip finally accepts as a student. Owing to Ips failure to attend, Cheung is declared the winner, although he seems unsatisfied by Ips refusal to fight him. Wing-sing, despite being happy about Ips decision to accompany her, makes an appointment with Cheung for another match on Ips behalf, as she guesses that Ip would have attended if not for her condition. Wing-sing accompanies Ip to the fight. After a battle with six and a half point poles, butterfly swords and an empty-handed fight, Ip eventually overpowers Cheung with a one-inch punch. Accepting defeat, Cheung destroys the banner that proclaimed himself to be the Grandmaster. Ip tells him that their closest ones are more important than competing and leaves. In the epilogue, it is revealed that Wing-sing died in 1960, and that Ip helped make Wing Chun well known internationally and left a legacy.
Ip Man 3
2016