Jerry mixes and drinks a potion as the title card and credits are shown. After Jerry drinks the potion, he discovers that it gives him the ability to run (and eat) at blinding speed; he tests this out by eating Toms canister of sardines, along with the last bit of gravy and bits of his skin. Afterwards, Tom initially comes under the assumption that a ghost was eating his food, but concludes that its a bug equipped with a jetpack and chattery teeth. Tom slips a large watermelon slice around the corner and readies a flyswatter. Jerry mows through all of the watermelon flesh and Tom only ends up scattering the rind and seeds around. When Tom sees an entire turkey being eaten, he panics and takes a grape cluster and an apple from the table. But Jerry proceeds to eat the apple down to the core and the rest of the fruit and the grapes. After going berserk, Tom hides in the refrigerator and attempts to eat a stack of ribs, which Jerry proceeds to eat. Tom then sets out a cake and films Jerry stealing it so he can see who is taking his food. After Tom prepares the film, he plays it in slow motion to uncover who is behind these charades. This is what happened: Jerry approaches from the right and eats the cake one layer at a time, then he takes the cherry on top. Tom sees this and mutters somewhat in the vein of, "Why, that mouse is very strong!" Afterwards, Tom sets up a mousetrap sandwich for Jerry. Jerry does take the bait, but doesnt trigger the trap. After Tom triggers the trap from attempting to bite Jerry, Tom yells in pain upside the light fixture! When Jerry takes a banana from the refrigerator, Tom grabs the banana and peels the skin, Jerry taunts him by kissing his nose then runs off. The effects of the potion wear off, and Jerry barely escapes Tom. Jerry makes a second potion, but this time, it is an enlargement potion, which enlarges its consumer to an unbelievably large size. Tom catches Jerrys tail and somehow manages to pull him through the wall. When Tom can no longer tug the load around, he turns around to see the mega-Jerry sadistically raising his eyebrows and waving at him. Tom begins to laugh at the Super Sized Jerry, thinking it is a joke, but then begins to cry, meaning that hes worried, as the cartoon ends.
Is There a Doctor in the Mouse?
1964