A post-World War II feel-good movie, It Happened in Brooklyn begins in England at the end of the war. Danny Miller (Frank Sinatra) is with a group of GIs awaiting transportation home to the US. On his last night there, he meets Jamie Shellgrove (Peter Lawford), who is a very shy young man whose grandfather feels should be taken under someones wing. After observing Miller come to his grandsons aid at the piano, he asks Danny to speak with his son, to give him "some words of encouragement". In order to look good in front of the Brooklyn-born nurse (Gloria Grahame) who scolded him for not making friends, he agrees, even going so far as to saying what would really fix Jamie up would be for him to come to Brooklyn. As he rushes out to catch his transport to the docks for the voyage home, Danny discovers that Jamie is really the heir to a duke. Upon Dannys return to Brooklyn, the film revolves around characters realizing their dreams of escaping working-class drudgery: in Sinatras case to become a singer/musician rather than a shipping clerk, in Lawfords case to break out of his extreme shyness to gain a wife and a career as a songwriter, and in Graysons case to break out of her schoolteaching job to star in the opera (although this last is not shown coming to pass, but she presumably lives happily ever after as she is brought to England as the fiancée of the Lawford character, who is heir to a dukedom). The story ends with Danny realizing the nurse he talked to at the start of the film is the only girl for him, and since he figures shes got to be back in Brooklyn herself, and hes got all kinds of friends now, hes optimistic about finding and winning her. The films tagline was "Happy songs! Happy stars! Happy romance!". Lawford dances while singing a song, a performance that was particularly well received by both critics and public, outshining future fellow Rat Pack member Sinatra. One highlight of the film is seeing and hearing Sinatra and Grayson singing "Là ci darem la mano" from Mozarts 1787 opera Don Giovanni.
It Happened in Brooklyn
1947