In this fantasy, screwball romantic comedy,Victoria Stafford (Ginger Rogers), is a wealthy girl who has been engaged three times, and has three times backed out at the altar. On a train she meets the vision George McKesson dressed as an Indian, just like she envisioned her dream man when she was a kid. He claims that he is a figment of her imagination and will disappear as soon as she stops thinking about him. He follows her home and causes much confusion among her family. Determined to wed her fourth fiancé, Oliver H.P. Harrington (Ron Randell), Victoria is on the verge of saying "yes", when suddenly she meets the real version of her "dream lover," Johnny Blaine, a firefighter (Cornel Wilde), the physical incarnation. At her insistence they start going out. It turns out he too, has backed out three times at the altar claiming it never felt right. Victoria is so excited to meet him and to discover that they share a lot in common but George doesnt buying it easily because he has three let downs, plus he has to do things his way. In the meantime, fiancée Oliver has a conversation with George. Who alludes to the scandal of Victoria, having traveled with an Indian on a train. In a way he gives Oliver the phone number of the conductor who witnessed the whole train adventure. Oliver, desperate to find out the truth tracks down the train conductor, then calls off the wedding. After some days, Victoria has convinced Johnny that they have always been in love ever since they were kids and that they are made for each other. He decides to marry her but wants to speak to her father first. Because the family thinks that he is George, they are confused when he claims to be Johnny Blaine the firefighter. Thinking that the whole family is nuts and concerned about her train adventure with another man, he leaves. Oliver and Victoria reconcile through their families and are about to marry when the vision of George McKesson shows up at the wedding, dressed as an Indian. The father knowing she is marrying the wrong man sets off the fire alarm to bring the real dream man, Johnny. When the fire crew enter the ceremony, Johnny carries Victoria over his shoulder and they leave the house.
It Had to Be You (1947 film)
1947