In the 1890s, Lawrence Stevens (Dick Powell) is an obituary writer unhappy in his job, who is given, by a ghostly deceased newspaper man named Pop Benson (John Philliber), a newspaper that has tomorrows news. He uses the paper to write stories and get the scoop on other reporters; but this also brings him under suspicion by Police Inspector Mulrooney (Edgar Kennedy), who wants to know how Stevens always seems to know whats going to happen and where, mainly a robbery at a theaters box office during a performance. Stevens and his new girlfriend Sylvia (Linda Darnell) – half of a clairvoyant act with her uncle Oscar Smith (Jack Oakie) – have a number of adventures, until her uncle mistakenly thinks that Stevens has consorted with his niece in her boarding house room. The uncle attempts to intimidate Stevens into marrying her, not knowing that Stevens has come to him to ask for her hand. Stevens gets another newspaper from Pop Benson, intending to use it to pick horses at the racetrack, to win enough money to get married. Unfortunately, he also reads a story about his own death that night, so he and Sylvia get married immediately and head off to the track with her uncle. Stevens bets on winner after winner, amassing $60,000, which is then stolen on their way back to town. They give chase but are arrested for speeding. Stevens tries his best to avoid the hotel lobby where his death is supposed to take place, but circumstances keep pushing him in that direction. He spots the man who stole his money and chases him on foot through the streets and over the rooftops, until they both fall through the chimney that leads to the very hotel lobby hes been trying to avoid. A gunfight breaks out, and the thief is shot and killed. Because he has Stevens wallet on him, he is at first identified as the newspaperman, and his newspaper prints an erroneous story saying that their star reporter has been killed. When a reporter finds out the truth, the newspaper has already hit the streets; and it is this edition that Pop had given him. So Stevens does not die in the hotel lobby, and he and Sylvia live to celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary.
It Happened Tomorrow
1944