Aloysius T. McKeever (Victor Moore), a New York City hobo, makes his home in a seasonally boarded-up Fifth Avenue mansion, entering and exiting through a secluded utility manhole, while its owner, multi-millionaire ("the second richest man in the world") Michael J. OConnor (Charles Ruggles), winters in the South. McKeever winds up taking in homeless ex-G.I. Jim Bullock (Don DeFore), who has been evicted from an apartment building OConnor is tearing down for a new skyscraper, and runaway 18-year-old Trudy "Smith" (Gale Storm) who is actually OConnors daughter. Soon Jim invites war buddies Whitey (Alan Hale, Jr.), Hank (Edward Ryan) and their families to share the vast mansion while they seek permanent homes of their own. Trudy falls in love with Jim, and when her father demands to meet him, convinces OConnor to also take up residence, pretending to be the panhandler "Mike". She wants to win Jims love without the temptation of her wealth. McKeever "allows" Mike to move in, but treats him as a servant. When Mike warns Trudy that he intends to have them all arrested for criminal trespass, she persuades her mother Mary (Ann Harding) to fly up from Florida and pretend to be the 11th interloper, a cook. Determined to derail the budding romance, Mike has one of his construction companies offer Jim a great job in Bolivia, but Jim turns it down to pursue his dream. The ex-GIs have an idea to buy a former Army camp and convert its barracks into inexpensive family housing. Unbeknownst to either side, Mike and Jim get into a bidding war for the camp, which Mike wants for an air cargo terminal. In the meantime, Mike and Mary reconcile when she believes he has changed. All are celebrating Christmas Eve together, forgetting to hide as usual from the patrolmen who check the house every night, but the patrolmen agree to let the families stay until after the New Year. Jim reveals that he and his partners have lost the camp to Michael J. OConnor, and when Mike later defends his business dealings to Mary, she tells him he has not changed after all. His dream shattered, Jim takes the job offer in Bolivia. Mary and Trudy angrily tell Mike they are leaving for Florida the next day because of the way he has manipulated Jim. Mike spins a tale that he has arranged a meeting with OConnor for Jim and his partners, who are dubious but accept. At the meeting, they see what to the boys appears to be Mike the panhandler and put him in a nearby closet so that `OConnor doesnt find him at the desk when he comes in. Once his assistant lets him out of the closet, the boys are astounded to learn that Mike is in fact Michael J. OConnor who then transfers the camp to the boys on the express condition that they never reveal his true identity to McKeever. That night, everyone shares a celebratory dinner before putting the house back "just the way we found it." They see the still-unaware McKeever off as he heads to the OConnors mansion in Virginia, and Mike tells Mary remind him to nail up the board in the back fence because next winter McKeever will be coming in through the front door.
It Happened on 5th Avenue
1947