In Los Angeles, Frank Davis (John Ryan) and his wife Lenore (Sharon Farrell) are expecting their second child. Frank is a successful public relations consultant and his wife is a stay-at-home mom for their first child, Chris (Daniel Holzman). The couple avoided having a child for several years while Lenore took contraceptive pills. When their child is ready to be born, they leave Chris with a family friend, Charley (William Wellman, Jr.), and go to the hospital. Their second child, a baby boy, is born monstrously deformed, with fangs and claws. Immediately after birth, one of the doctors attempts to suffocate the child. The child kills the doctors and nurses and flees through a skylight. Lenore is left alive, screaming for her child as a horrified Frank discovers the carnage. Frank and Lenore are allowed to leave the hospital while the police investigate the killings. Unknown to anyone, the child travels to the Davis home, and kills anyone he encounters. As the killings continue, the press and the police hound Frank and Lenore. When talking with medical researchers investigating the case, Frank is reminded of watching Frankenstein and Karloffs portrayal of the monster. He sees the child as symbolic of the monster and comes to see himself as Dr. Frankenstein, the true monster who created and abandoned the creature. Frank denies the child is his son, and joins the hunt for the murderous infant. The doctor who prescribed the drugs to Lenore is contacted by a pharmaceutical company executive. The executive acknowledges that the childs mutation may have been caused by the drugs. He tells the doctor that the child must be destroyed to prevent discovery of the companys liability. The Davis infant reaches the Davis home. Lenore embraces the child and hides him in the basement. Chris becomes homesick and runs away from Charleys house. Charley follows him. Frank discovers that Lenore is hiding the infant. Lenore desperately defends her child and promises he would not hurt the family. Frank then takes a gun into the basement to kill the infant, but he finds Chris talking to him and promising to protect him. Frank shoots at the child and hits him. The infant then flees the basement, and attacks and bites Charley on the neck, killing him. Frank shoots again. Lenore hysterically tries to stop Frank, and Frank tries unsuccessfully to reason with her. The police track the infant into the sewers, where Frank hunts him with a rifle. When he finds him, he realizes that the child is frightened and will not hurt him. He apologizes to the child and picks him up. Wrapping the baby in his coat, Frank tries to elude the police, but a mob of armed cops confronts him as he exits. He pleads for them to study the child but not hurt him. The fertility doctor screams at the police to kill him. The child suddenly leaps from Franks arms and attacks the doctor as the cops open fire, killing both the infant and the doctor. As the Davises are being taken home by the police, the detective in charge receives news that another deformed baby has been born in Seattle as the film ends.
It's Alive (1974 film)
1974