Richard the Lionheart (Norman Wooland), King of England, vanishes while returning from the Crusades. One of his knights, the Saxon Wilfred of Ivanhoe (Robert Taylor), searches tirelessly for him, finally finding him being held for ransom by Leopold of Austria for the enormous sum of 150,000 marks of silver. Richards treacherous brother, Prince John (Guy Rolfe), knows about it, but enjoys ruling in his absence. Ivanhoe returns to England, to the house of his estranged father, Cedric (Finlay Currie), to be reunited with his love and Cedrics ward, the Lady Rowena (Joan Fontaine), and to beg his fathers help in raising the ransom. Cedric refuses to help a Norman king and orders his son to leave. Wamba (Emlyn Williams), Cedrics court jester, begs to go with Ivanhoe and is made his squire. Two separate parties of travellers arrive and are granted Cedrics hospitality: a Jew, Isaac of York (Felix Aylmer), and Norman knights Sir Brian de Bois-Guilbert (George Sanders) and Sir Hugh de Bracy (Robert Douglas), and their entourage. That night, two of the Normans try to rob Isaac, but are foiled by Ivanhoe. Not feeling safe, Isaac decides to return to his home in Sheffield; Ivanhoe offers to escort him there. When they reach Isaacs home, Ivanhoe secures his help raising the ransom in return for better treatment for the Jews once Richard returns. Rebecca (Elizabeth Taylor), Isaacs daughter, visits Ivanhoe secretly in the night to reward him for rescuing her father; she gives him jewels to purchase arms and a horse for an important upcoming joust. She falls in love with him, despite the great social gulf between them, in that Jews are not allowed to marry Gentiles. Nearly everyone of note is at the tournament, including Prince John. Norman knights loyal to him defeat all comers. Just when it seems that they are victorious, a mysterious new Saxon knight appears, arrayed all in black, with white trim, his face hidden behind his visor. He does not give his name, but challenges all five Norman champions. He easily defeats the first three, Malvoisin, Ralph, and Front de Boeuf (Francis de Wolff), one after the other, and also wins the fourth bout against de Bracy, but is seriously wounded in the shoulder. He is soon identified by many as Ivanhoe. When Ivanhoe salutes Rebecca after his first victory, Bois-Guilbert is immediately smitten by her beauty. In the last joust against Bois-Guilbert, the injured Ivanhoe falls from his horse. He is carried off, to be tended to by Rebecca. Fearing Prince Johns wrath, the Saxons depart; Ivanhoe is taken to the woods under the protection of Robin Hood (Harold Warrender). The rest make for the city of York, but are captured and taken to the castle of Front de Boeuf. When Ivanhoe hears the news, he gives himself up, in exchange for his fathers freedom. However, the Normans go back on their word and keep them both. Robin Hoods men besiege and storm the castle, freeing most of the captives. In the fighting, de Boeuf drives Wamba to his death in a burning part of the castle and is slain in turn by Ivanhoe. Bois-Guilbert alone escapes, by using Rebecca as a shield, while de Bracy is defeated and captured by Ivanhoe after attempting to do the same with Rowena. Meanwhile, the enormous ransom is finally collected, but the Jews face a cruel choice: free either Richard or Rebecca, for Prince John has set the price of her life at 100,000 marks, the Jews’ contribution. Isaac chooses Richard. Ivanhoe entrusts the ransom delivery to Cedric, but promises Isaac that he will rescue Rebecca. John presides over Rebeccas trial for witchcraft, a kangaroo court. Rebecca is condemned to be burned at the stake as a witch, but Ivanhoe appears and challenges the verdict, invoking the right to "wager of battle," which cannot be denied by either common or canon law. However, Prince John has the right to select the courts champion. He chooses the conflicted Bois-Guilbert as his champion. Bois-Guilbert makes a last desperate plea to Rebecca: in return for her love, he is willing to forfeit the duel, though he would be degraded from knighthood and forever disgraced. She refuses, saying "We are all in Gods hands, Sir Knight." In the battle to the death, presided over by Malvoisin, Bois-Guilbert has first choice of weapons. He selects a mace and chain, leaving Ivanhoe with the battleaxe. For most of the battle, Bois-Guilbert has the upper hand. Ivanhoe is unhorsed and has his shield torn from his arm by the mace and chain as he continues to fight from the ground. However, Ivanhoe uses the haft of his battleaxe to snare Bois-Guilberts chain mace and pull him from his horse. Bois-Guilbert is mortally wounded by the fall and Ivanhoes skill with the axe. As he lies dying, Bois-Guilbert reaffirms to Rebecca that it is he who loves her, not Ivanhoe. Rebecca accepts that Ivanhoes heart has always belonged to Rowena, which causes both women to put their differences aside, and they reconcile. King Richard and his knights (with Cedric as an escort) return to reclaim the throne from the usurper Prince John. The King calls on his kneeling people to rise, not as Normans or Saxons, but as Englishmen.
Ivanhoe (1952 film)
1952