Ed Sullivan prepares the ushers for the Beatles performance on his show. In Maplewood, New Jersey, Rosie and Pam visit the record shop. Janis, the owner’s daughter, hates the Beatles and prefers folk music. Grace wants to rent a limo, so they can pull up to the Beatles hotel, and get exclusive photos of the band. The girls recruit shy Larry DuBois, the local undertaker’s son, as he has access to limos. They leave for New York City and on the way are joined by the brash, streetwise Tony who professes to hate the Beatles, although for different reasons than Janis. After driving all night, the six teenagers arrive in New York early in the morning of February 9, 1964. When they pull up at the hotel--which is surrounded by screaming teenagers--Grace, Rosie and Pam sneak in while Larry pulls the limo with Tony and Janis in it to the side of the building. Once inside, Grace and Rosie sneak into a service elevator, while Pam is left in the basement in a storage closet. Pam (who was the only one not really interested in seeing the Beatles, as she is engaged to Eddie Lupus) sees them leave the hotel as they go to rehearse. Meanwhile, Grace gets off on the 11th floor. Rosie rides up to the 12th, where the Beatles’ room is located. She is caught, escapes and meets Richard Klaus, a fellow Beatles fan who is hiding out in a room in the hotel. Pam hides in a food cart and is taken to the Beatles’ room, where she, mesmerized, touches all of their stuff and, when the Beatles return to the room, hides under John’s bed. Grace is caught too, so she goes to the CBS studio, where a guard tells her that for 50 dollars he will let her in backstage while the show is on. Grace and Larry try a quick money-making scheme with little success and a lot of danger. Meanwhile, Richard and Rosie are found out and tossed from the hotel. The two begin to quarrel and soon separate. In front of the hotel, Janis meet Peter, a kid whose dad will give him three tickets to The Ed Sullivan Show if he will get his Beatles style hair cut into a crew cut. Realizing that the Beatles themselves are providing the type of social cause that she believes in, she recruits Tony to steal the dad’s wallet and get the tickets. While Janis wants simply to help Peter see the show and be himself, Tony wants the ticket to somehow mess up the Beatles TV appearance. Larry asks Grace to the Valentine’s Day dance at school, but she brushes him off. Her mind on the photos, Grace decides to take the place of a prostitute who has an encounter at the hotel to get the money she needs. Rosie, on the way up to the room she has a key for, hears a question on the radio with tickets as the prize, so she runs into the room, calls with the answer, and wins two tickets. Richard then strands them in the elevator. Pam is caught, but treated with kindness by the Beatles staff and interviewed by the press. Eddie, her fiancé, arrives to get her, but realizing that she has no interest in getting married, she leaves Eddies car and runs toward the theater, where she uses the ticket Beatles roadie Neil Aspinall gave her to see the show. Once in the john’s room, Grace can’t go through with it and hides, but takes photos of the john and the hooker and blackmails him into giving her 50 dollars. He attacks her, but Larry, who has been getting progressively drunker in the hotel bar, appears just in time to punch out the john and save Grace. Meanwhile near the barber shop, where Peter and his dad are to meet, Tony lifts the dad’s wallet and eventually helps Peter and Janis get the tickets. Richard and Rosie escape from the elevator and get to the show, inadvertently meeting Pam in front of the theater. As the Beatles come onstage, Tony attempts to sabotage the show but fails. Larry parks the limo in the alley behind the CBS studio and Grace goes to the back door of the theater. A policeman, however, pulls alongside Larry and prepares to arrested him for improper parking and driving without a license. Grace, running back to the car, uses the 50 dollars to bribe the cop into letting him go. Without money to get backstage and get her photos, Grace is temporarily disconsolate but soon offers to accompany Larry to the dance. As the Beatles leave the theater following the TV show, they take a wrong turn and end up in Larry’s limo. As a crush of fans descends on the car, Larry drives the limo off with the Beatles in the back seat as Grace begins to snap photos.
I Wanna Hold Your Hand (film)
1978