Rent-a-Car Crash-Up Derby - the team rent a Ford Contour which Johnny Knoxville then drives in a demolition derby event, before returning the wrecked car to the rental company. The Muscle Stimulator - the team try out electronic muscle stimulators, using them to zap each other with electric shocks. Fatty Fall Down - Preston Lacy sits down on a bench that has been rigged to collapse, in front of passers-by. Golf Cart Antics - the team take part in various stunts in golf buggies across a golf course, destroying them in the process. Party Boy Japan - Chris Pontius, as Party Boy, strips off and dances in the middle of a Tokyo shopping centre. Alligator Tightrope - Steve-O attempts to walk a tightrope across a zoos alligator enclosure. Fireworks Wake-Up - Bam Margera wakes up his parents by letting off fireworks in their bedroom, and again in Phils van when he sets out to go to work. The Shoplifter - Johnny Knoxville, dressed as an elderly man, attempts to steal from a shop by hiding various items in his clothes. Hardware Store Crap - Dave England takes a dump in a display toilet at a hardware store. Clipper Cam - various members of the team and crew are subjected to surprise attacks with hair clippers. Mousetraps - Ehren McGhehey, dressed as a mouse, has to negotiate his way through hundreds of mousetraps to reach the "cheese". The Bungee Wedgie - Raab Himself jumps from a tree, suspended by his underpants from a bungee cord. Riot Control Test - Johnny Knoxville is shot in the stomach with a "less-lethal" projectile designed to control rioters. The Big Cone - Wee Man hides under a giant plastic roadcone and sets off around busy Tokyo streets. Ass Kicked by Girl - Ryan Dunn fights Japanese female kickboxer Naoko Kumagai. Tropical Pole Vaulting - Steve-O pole-vaults into palm trees, into the sea from a pier, and into a filthy drainage channel. Night Pandas - The team dress up as pandas and set off into the bustling nightlife of Tokyo. Rocket Skates - Johnny Knoxville attaches firework rockets to his roller skates. Roller Disco Truck - The team get into the back of a truck for a roller disco complete with strobe lights and dry ice, while Preston Lacy drives the truck around a car park. Wasabi Snooters - At a Japanese restaurant Steve-O attempts to snort wasabi hot sauce. The Gong - Rick Kosick and Johnny Knoxville sneak up behind unsuspecting members of the Japanese public with a giant gong. Bams Mom Says Fuck - In an effort to make April Margera swear, the team place two alligators in the Margera house to scare her. The Handrail - Johnny Knoxville attempts to grind a long rail on his skateboard, with professional skaters Eric Koston and Clyde Singleton appearing in a cameo role. Jacuzzi - Preston Lacy has a relaxing afternoon in the hot tub with a beer. Paper Cuts - The team give each other papercuts in sensitive areas with an envelope. The Fortune Teller - Party Boy gets his fortune told. Sweaty Fat Fucks - Tony Hawk and Mat Hoffman join the team in fat suits for a skate and BMX session. Department Store Boxing - Boxer Butterbean takes on Johnny Knoxville, their boxing ring being the middle of a department store. Whale Shark Gummer - Steve-O and Chris Pontius fill their swimming trunks with shrimp and go diving to attract whale sharks. Tidal Wave - Johnny Knoxville dons his snorkel and faces up to a huge man-made wave. Off-Road Tattoo - Steve-O gets a tattoo of a smiley face on his arm in the back of a Humvee, with Henry Rollins driving it over rough ground at high speed. Ass Rockets - Steve-O and the team develop new ways of launching fireworks. BMX Tug-of-War - Ryan Dunns BMX is anchored to Preston Lacy by a bungee rope. Yellow Snowcone - Ehren McGhehey ignores the old warning to never eat yellow snow. Golf Course Airhorn - The team hide in trees at the side of a golf course, armed with airhorns. The Burglars - Johnny Knoxville and Bam Margeras burglary of a diamond company goes terribly wrong. Butt X-Ray - Ryan Dunn places a toy car into his anus, then goes to get an X-ray. Son of Jackass - the team dress as elderly men for the apocalyptic ending sequence. (in a deleted scene, Chris Pontius dressed like a mouse gets smacked in the face by a mountain lion).
Jackass: The Movie
2006