Jackass Number Two is a compilation of various stunts, pranks and skits. The film opens with an introduction of the primary cast members as they are being chased by bulls in a suburban neighborhood. List of stunts: Puppet Show – Chris Pontiuss penis is placed in a puppet in order to entice a snake to bite it. The Valentine – Members of the team are lured over to a valentine note on a hotel wall supposedly left by a fan, which hides a spring-loaded boxing glove. Firehose Rodeo – Dave England rides a spraying fire hose in a mud pit. Bicentennial Bmxing – Johnny Knoxville and Ryan Dunn attempt to use Penny-farthing bicycles to perform modern bike stunts. The Strongman – Johnny Knoxville and Bam Margera try to put a dildo up Margeras butt using a barbell Spike Jonze dresses as an old lady pranking strangers in public. The Mini-Loop – Danger Ehren McGhehey attempts to use a Minibike on a miniature loop-the-loop. The Brand – Johnny Knoxville, Bam Margera, and Ryan Dunn brand the outline of a penis on Margeras ass. Later, Margera shows the results of the brand to his parents. Lake Jump – Johnny Knoxville and Chris Pontius attempt to ride a rocket-powered bicycle over a lake. Mark Zupan and Mat Hoffman also attempt the stunt, Zupan in a modified wheelchair. The Fish Hook – Steve-O pierces his cheek with a fish hook and dives in shark-infested waters. The Electric Stool – Bam Margera, Steve-O, and Chris Pontius have Wee-Man sit on an electrified stool while Jim Karol attempts to throw cards into Wee-Mans butt crack. Dramatic Re-Enactment- Bam Margera recreates the results of a stunt gone wrong with a drawing. The Bungee Jump – Wee Man and Preston Lacy are linked together for a bungee jump off a bridge. Bad Grandpa – Johnny Knoxville plays a grandpa named Irving Zisman, visiting a food truck with his "grandson," intentionally provoking customers to fight him over his offensive comments and irresponsible behavior. The Beehive Limo – Ryan Dunn, Steve-O, Wee Man, Dave England get inside a limo, then Johnny Knoxville and Bam Margera dump bees inside of it. The Rake Jump – Steve-O Jumps on the end of a rake, hitting himself in the face with the handle. Riot Control Test – Johnny Knoxville, Bam Margera, and Ryan Dunn get shot with riot control rubber balls. Medicine Ball Dodgeball – Bam Margera and the team play dodgeball in the dark with medicine balls. The Magic Trick – John Waters and Wee-Man perform a sketch in which Wee-Man "disappears." The Gauntlet – Johnny Knoxville, Dave England, and Bam Margera attempt to ride across a skate ramp lined with swinging sandbags thrown by Mat Hoffman and Tony Hawk The Toro Totter – Johnny Knoxville, Chris Pontius, Bam Margera, and Ryan Dunn sit on seesaws in the center of a rodeo ring while a bull attempts to gore them. Butt Chug – Steve-O attempts to chug beer using a tube up his butt. The Rocket Cart – Ryan Dunn rides a rocket-powered shopping cart off a ramp into the water. The Anaconda Ball Pit – Johnny Knoxville, Wee Man, and Ryan Dunn get in a ball pit with an anaconda. The Ice Horse – Ryan Dunn sits on a horse figurine made out of ice with no underwear on, in the hopes that his balls will stick to the ice. The Swamp Chute – In a swamp area, Wee-Man deploys a parachute in front of a high-powered fan. How to Milk a Horse – Johnny Knoxville and Chris Pontius masturbate a horse, and Pontius drinks the ejaculate. The Big Tire Race – The guys ride down a hill inside giant tires. The Leech Healer – In India, Dave England and Steve-O apply leeches to themselves. Wind Tunnel – Bam Margera is tricked into doing a stunt that is actually a prank involving his fear of snakes. The Fart Mask – Steve-O puts on a helmet connected to a tube that Preston Lacy farts into. Big Green Ball – Dave England attempts to ride a big green ball. Old Man Balls – Johnny Knoxville, as Irving Zisman, dangles a fake pair of testicles down the leg of his shorts and approaches pedestrians. The Switcheroo – Bam Margera pranks his mother, April, by having his father, Phil, slip out of bed in the middle of the night, and sends Preston Lacy dressed as Phil in as a replacement. Big Red Rocket – Johnny Knoxville prepares to ride a gigantic rocket. Terror Taxi – Danger Ehren is lured into a prank where he thinks he is pranking a random cab driver by posing as a terrorist, but the rest of the gang is pranking him by having Jay Chandrasekhar play a driver who retaliates against the "terrorists." The gang also convinces Ehren to wear a fake beard made out of the groups pubic hair. The Bear Trap – Johnny Knoxville puts his hand into a bear trap The movie finishes with a Busby Berkeley-style movie musical production number set to the La Cage aux Folles song "The Best of Times", where the guys sing and dance while performing more stunts.
Jackass Number Two
2010