In the Duchy of Cornwall of fairy tale days, an evil sorcerer named Pendragon, ruler of giants, witches, hobgoblins and all evil creatures, was defeated by the wizard, Herla, and along with his disciples, exiled to an uncharted, unknown island. Pendragon, however, vows revenge and Herla later dies, meaning that a threat against Pendragon no longer exists. Years later, the kingdom celebrates the crowning of Princess Elaine (Judi Meredith). The reception goes well until Pendragon (Torin Thatcher) arrives disguised as a foreign lord; as a birthday gift, he gives Elaine a magical music box with a small anthropomorphic jester inside that walks and dances. When Elaine is asleep later that night, Pendragon uses his magic to turn the music box jester into a hideous giant named Cormoran, who captures Elaine. The castle guards try to stop the giant, but he overpowers them with relative ease and escapes. Cormoran takes Elaine to a ship run by Garda (Walter Burke) Pendragons sidekick, but before it can sail, a brave farmer named Jack (Kerwin Mathews) rescues Elaine; Jack then fights Cormoran and slays the giant. In gratitude, King Mark (Dayton Lummis) makes Jack Elaines protector and entrusts him to safely guide her to a convent across the sea. What he does not know, however, is that Elaines waiting-maid, Lady Constance (Anna Lee), is actually a witch in league with Pendragon and reveals the kings plan to him. Enraged at having his plan foiled, Pendragon makes up another one, determined to stop Jack. While Jack and Elaine are planning their trip, King Mark and his servants discuss the potential danger Pendragon now poses. While Jack and Elaine are falling in love during their journey, Pendragon sends his demonic witches to intercept Jacks ship. In the chaos, the ships captain (Robert Gist) is murdered by one of the witches and Elaine is captured, and when Jack attempts to follow the kidnappers, the crew, spooked by the creatures, mutiny and cast Jack and his friend Peter (Roger Mobley), the captains young son, overboard. At his castle, Pendragon uses his powers to turn Elaine into an evil witch, then returns to Cornwall and confronts King Mark, telling him he has one week to renounce the throne and let Elaine rule alongside Pendragon, or else Elaine will die. After he vanishes, King Mark realizes Constance has betrayed him, and when she stands before a mirror, she appears as a witch. King Mark then breaks the mirror, thereby freeing Constance from Pendragons power. In the sea, a friendly viking named Sigurd (Barry Kelley) rescues Jack and Peter and introduces them to the Imp (Don Beddoe), a leprechaun imprisoned in a bottle by the king of the elves for crafting seven-league boots from his pot of gold. The Imp explains that his three remaining gold coins can each grant a wish to an honest man (the fact that Sigurd has possessed the bottle for some time without being granted any wishes demonstrates that he does not qualify), on the condition that Jack break open the bottle to free him once all three are used up. With the use of the Imps first two wishes, Jack is able to approach Pendragon and coerce him into giving Elaine back, unaware that she has been transformed and now holds allegiance with Pendragon. Upon their return journey, Elaine disables Jack with a sleeping potion, but when she touches the Imps bottle, it grows hot because of her evil nature, causing her to accidentally cast it into the sea. Pendragon then captures Jack and his friends and attempts to make Jack tell him the whereabouts of the Imp by turning Peter and Sigurd into a chimpanzee and a dog, respectively. When Pendragon still cannot force Jacks compliance (because Jack genuinely does not know where the Imp is at the moment), he leaves him with Elaine, who finally reveals her witch form to him. With Peter and Sigurds aid, Jack manages to break free and smash Elaines mirror reflection, restoring her to normal. As the friends flee the castle, Pendragon conjures up a giant similar to Cormoran (but this time with two heads) to block their path. As they retreat, they find the Imp washed ashore, who grants Jacks final wish by summoning a sea monster, which kills the two-headed giant. As a last resort, Pendragon transforms himself into a dog-like dragon and attacks the ship, but Jack kills him after a fierce battle. In effect, Pendragons death causes the destruction of his castle, crushing Garda, the hobgoblins and the witches in the process, while Sigurd and Peter are restored to human form. Jack then honors his promise and frees the Imp from his bottle and the leprechaun uses his boots to return to Ireland, while giving Jack and his friends a lead for their triumphant return to Cornwall.
Jack the Giant Killer (1962 film)
1962