James Burns is in prison for selling guns, drug possession and illegal possession of a firearm. Some years earlier, his mother Tracy attempts to enroll him in school, but is turned away due to his past in juvenile detention. One night, James meets Crystal and Drew after they steal from a convenience store, and befriends them. Crystal tells James about Roc, a guy they do illegal odd jobs for and offers him a chance to get in on it. James mother finds out and reminds him that they are close to his legal appeal, but he defies his incarceration by cutting off his ankle bracelet. James goes to Rocs house asking how he can make money. Roc propositions James to be his getaway driver, then offers a chance to work for him full-time. Later, James and Crystal are horsing around in a convenience store; when James tries to buy cigarettes and liquor, the cashier, Sarah, tells him to take it as she does not want trouble. Drew and James go to a strip club and Drew points out a man who owes Roc money. Bursting into the mans office, James pulls a gun on him but his thugs break in and beat him up. In the parking lot, James busts the windows out of the mans car and finds a bag of guns. Afterward, James runs into Roc, who orders him to fix the situation. Meanwhile, James befriends Sarah and begins a relationship with her. He then tries to leave Rocs crew, but Roc tells James that there is a deal going down that night and guilt trips him into going. James and Drew show up to sell the guns he stole, but the police arrive. James escapes to Sarahs house and tells her to pack so they can leave town together. She refuses, leaving him to face his crimes. In the present day, James makes an enemy in Guillermo, who picks on a new inmate, Chris Cesario. Later, Guillermos gang attempts to stab James in the shower; during the fight, Chris is mortally wounded instead. James has nightmares from the incident, and takes up poetry in order to block out prison. Worried about Chris, James goes to Lt. Falton to request that Chris be taken out of the yard until his hearing, but Falton refuses. The next day, Guillermo tries to start a fight, but James refuses to join in. Weeks later, Chris hangs himself in the hallway after getting another six years on his sentence. Out of anger, James beats up Guillermo. Later, James starts a fight in the yard, but fellow inmate Conrad breaks it up by telling James that he needs to keep to himself because of his upcoming hearing. At his hearing, James admits regret over Chris death and his past decisions; he is subsequently released from prison and gets a job as a janitor. One night, an old acquaintance comes by and offers him some work, but he turns it down. Arriving at Sarahs convenience store, he finds it boarded up. He goes to Sarahs house, but her father says she has moved out. He finds her at a new house that she shares with her fiancé. The two talk about their lives, and James says he may move to New York City. At Sarahs request, he recites some of his poetry for her.
Jamesy Boy
2014