Prior to a new hotel opening on Amity Island, a great white shark ambushes and kills two divers, who are photographing the wreckage of the Orca. A couple of days later, their camera is recovered, and the shark goes after a female water skier and speedboat driver, killing the skier, while the driver fends off the shark using a gas tank and flare gun, causing the boat to explode, killing her and burning the sharks head. Along with these disappearances, a killer whale carcass is found beached. Police Chief Martin Brody believes that these events are a sharks responsibility. Brody explains his concerns to Mayor Larry Vaughn, who highly doubts that the town is under another shark crisis. Later, Brody finds debris from the destroyed speedboat in the surf just off the beach. He wades over to retrieve it, and uncovers the boat drivers burnt remains. That evening, Brody calls Matt Hooper for assistance, but he is unable to return to Amity due to a research expedition he is currently part of, thus, Brody is on his own. The following day, at the beach, Brody sees a dark shadow that approaches the swimmers. Thinking that it is a shark, he frantically orders everyone out of the water, and fires from his gun. However, the shadow is revealed to be a rather harmless school of bluefish. His fears are confirmed when he acquires a close-up picture of the shark from the divers camera. The Amity town council, including local developer Len Peterson, deny the evidence, and vote Brody out as police chief. The next morning, Brodys teenage son, Mike, disobeys his fathers orders by sneaking out to go sailing with his friends after his love interest, Jackie Peters, goads him to, but his younger brother, Sean, catches him, and persuades Mike to bring him along. After an argument at the dock, Marge, one of Mikes friends, playfully lets Sean come in her boat with her, and after a couple of other grouping arrangements, they head out, going past a team of divers, led by instructor Tom Andrews. Moments after submerging, Andrews encounters the shark. Panicking, he rushes to the surface, causing an embolism. Soon after, the shark hits teenagers Tina Wilcox and Eddie Marchand; Eddie falls into the water and is killed by the shark. Brody and his wife, Ellen, follow an ambulance to the docks, where they find Tom, as he is put on a stretcher; the divers suspect something scared him underwater. Deputy Len Hendricks, Brodys replacement, tells them that Mike went sailing with his friends, so Brody, along with Ellen and Hendricks, takes the police boat to rescue them. They find Tina hiding in the bow of her boat, and she informs them of the sharks presence. Hendricks and Ellen take Tina to shore, where the truth is revealed, while Brody goes on to find the kids. Meanwhile, the shark attacks the other kids, striking one of their boats, causing most of them to capsize and crash into each other in the ensuing chaos, throwing several of them, including Mike and Sean, into the water. The other teens help them out of the water, while two of them pull Mike out as the shark goes for him and head back to get help. Sean and the others remain adrift on the wreckage of tangled boats. A Coast Guard marine helicopter that Brody contacted arrives to tow them to shore, but the shark sinks the chopper with the pilot at the controls. It then knocks Sean into the water, but Marge saves him, only for herself to be killed while doing so. Brody finds Mike, who tells his father that Sean is with his friends, drifting towards Cable Junction, a small island housing an electrical relay station, and apologizes for disobeying him. Brody accepts his apology while telling him to get to safety and quickly finds them, but when the shark returns, he panics and maroons the police boat on Cable Junction. He then tries to pull them in with a winch, but hooks an underwater power cable. The sharks next move sends most of the teenagers into the water, and they swim to the edge of Cable Junction, while Sean and Jackie are still on the boats. Using an inflatable raft, Brody taps the power cable with an oar to lure the shark. The shark bites the cable, and is fatally electrocuted. Brody picks up Sean and Jackie, and they join the others on Cable Junction to await rescue.
Jaws 2
1978