The film opens with a shuriken flying through the air and hitting a wooden post as a man runs for his life. When the man reaches the road, the Creeper drops from the sky and flies off with him, while another man watches from his truck. When he gets out to investigate, he looks up in the air and sees a first a machete and finally, a severed hand fall from the sky. Twenty-three years later, shortly after the events of the first film, the police discover the Creepers truck filled with dead bodies. The truck has been rigged with several booby-traps, including spikes that emerge from the bed of the truck, and a spear that shoots out from the tail-pipe. When Sheriff Dan Tashtego arrives, Sergeant Davis Tubbs tells him what happened and Tashtego informs him that the Creeper has been around for thousands of years and must be stopped. They then rush to get the Creepers truck back after learning it is headed for the impound. As Frank and Deputy Lang transport the vehicle, the Creeper lands on the tow truck and severs the cables. They then watch as the truck drives off seemingly on its own, while the Creeper stands on top of it. When the truck returns, the Creeper abducts Frank while Lang stands frozen in fear. The next day, Gaylen Brandon sees a vision of her son Kenny, who was killed by the Creeper twenty-three years earlier. He warns her that the Creeper will return soon to uncover something buried on the property and will kill anyone who is still there, including her and her granddaughter, Addison, when it does. Meanwhile, Tashtego informs Tubbs that he has put together a small team to hunt down the Creeper and kill it once and for all. Later, a group of teenagers discover the Creepers truck in a field. After finding the bodies, they take off on dirt bikes, but Kirk is shot in the leg with the spear. As two of the other boys try to free him, the Creeper returns and kills them both with another spear. The last boy is abducted by the Creeper as he tries to escape after peeing on the Creepers truck. Later, Addison goes into town to buy hay for her horse. When she cant pay for it, her friend Buddy helps her out and the two drive to a plantation house to deliver more hay. There they find the owner and a couple of men hiding under cars, but before they can get help the Creeper arrives and abducts Addison, leaving Buddy traumatized. Gaylen discovers a sack containing the Creepers severed hand buried in her front yard, and when she touches it she goes into a hypnotic state. When Tashtego and Tubbs arrive with the team, she reveals that the hand contains secrets about the Creepers origins, and Tashtego decides to touch it to uncover a way to kill it. Addison wakes up in the Creepers truck with Kirk, and together they try to find a way out, but when Kirk reaches for the door handle a metal pipe shoots out and impales him in the head. Meanwhile, Tashtego and Tubbs discover the Creepers location, and they head off to find him, along with Michael (who has a machine gun attached to his truck). They find the Creeper driving down the highway in his truck, but when they shoot at it, the bullets deflect, and Michael is killed. A small explosive is ejected from the bottom of the Creepers truck, and when it goes off, Tashtego and Tubbs car lands in a field. Tubbs gets out and tries to shoot the Creeper, but all of his attempts fail. However, before the Creeper can kill Tubbs, Tashtego calls him and he goes for him instead. When the Creeper jumps into the air, Tashtego shoots him several times with the machine gun, but the bullets have no effect and he is tackled to the ground and struck in the head with an axe. That night, the Creeper discovers that Addison is still alive, but before he can kill her, she causes the metal pipe to shoot out and impale him in the head. She quickly escapes and runs through a field, and the Creeper throws a shuriken which barely misses her head. He then throws a spear at her, which also barely misses her. He tries one last time to hit her with an axe, but he is hit by a truck and Addison runs away. When the truck driver gets out to see what happened, he is killed by the Creeper. Addison runs and hides in a field where she is found by Gaylen and Buddy and the three leave together. The Creeper later returns to Gaylens house where he finds a sign that says We know what you are, along with the hand, and yells out in anger. The next day, Addison says goodbye to Buddy before he leaves for a high school basketball game in the same bus that is attacked by the Creeper in the second movie. Twenty-three years later, Trish Jenner is seen reading a letter she presumably wrote on a computer calling for people to fight against the Creeper when it returns, and vows to get revenge on the Creeper for the death of her brother, Darry.
Jeepers Creepers 3
2017