On its twenty-second day of feeding, the Creeper disguised as a scarecrow abducts young Billy Taggart in front of his father Jack, and older brother Jack Jr. The next day, a school bus carrying a high school basketball team and cheerleaders suffers a blowout, after one of the tires is hit by a hand-crafted shuriken made of bone fragments. Later, cheerleader Minxie Hayes has a vision of Billy Taggart and Darry Jenner, the Creepers victim from the first film, who attempt to warn her about the Creeper, before he blows out another tire, disabling the bus. With the team stranded, the Creeper abducts the bus driver and coaches. When he returns he singles out several of the students including Dante, Jake, Scotty, Bucky, and Double D. Minxie has another vision in which Darry says the Creeper emerges every twenty-third spring, for twenty-three days to eat humans, and she tells the other students. After hearing several police reports, the Taggarts go hunting for the Creeper and soon make radio contact with the school bus. The Creeper attacks Bucky, but Rhonda stabs it through the head with a javelin. After decapitating Dante, The Creeper uses his severed head to replace its own. The students decide to leave the bus to find help, but the Creeper returns and chases them into a field, where the Creeper kills Jake and takes Scotty. When The Creeper attacks Bucky on the bus again, Taggart arrives and shoots it with a home-made harpoon, but The Creeper fights off Taggart and manages to escape after flipping over the bus and Taggarts truck. Izzy, Rhonda, and Double D find a truck and attempt to escape but are chased by the Creeper again. Izzy pushes Rhonda out of the truck before causing the vehicle to crash, injuring both Double D and the Creeper, who loses an arm, a leg, and a wing. The Creeper continues to pursue Double D by leaping towards him and when it has Double D pinned down, Taggart shows up and shoots the Creeper in the head with the harpoon. He repeatedly stabs the Creeper in the chest but it goes into a hibernation state before it can die. Twenty-three years later, a group of teenagers drive to Taggarts farm, where the Creeper is a sideshow attraction, called "The Bat Out of Hell". They see an elderly Taggart watching it with the harpoon at his side, and when they ask him if he is waiting for something, he looks up at the Creeper and says: “about three more days, give or take a day or two".
Jeepers Creepers II
2003