Anita "Needy" Lesnicki, once an insecure and bookish teenager living near Devils Kettle, Minnesota, is now a violent mental inmate who narrates the story as a flashback while in solitary confinement. Since childhood, she had been friends with a selfish and popular cheerleader, Jennifer Check, despite having little in common. One night, Jennifer takes Needy to a local dive bar to attend a concert by indie rock band Low Shoulder. A suspicious fire engulfs the bar, killing several people. In shock, Jennifer agrees to leave with the band despite Needys protests. Later that evening, Jennifer, covered in blood, appears in Needys kitchen and proceeds to eat food from the refrigerator. Unable to digest it, she vomits a trail of black, spiny fluid and then leaves in a hurry as Needy calls after her. The next morning at school, Jennifer appears fine and shrugs off Needys concerns. While the whole town is devastated by the deaths caused by the fire, Jennifer seduces the schools football captain in the woods and then kills him; his disemboweled corpse is later found. Meanwhile, the members of Low Shoulder gain popularity due to their rumored heroism during the fire and offer to make a charity appearance at the schools spring formal. A month later, Jennifer is beginning to look pale, so she accepts a date with school goth/emo Colin, whom she brutally kills. While Needy and Chip have sex, Needy senses something dreadful has happened. She leaves in a panic and almost runs over Jennifer, who is drenched in blood. At home, she finds Jennifer in her bedroom. Jennifer kisses her, initiating a brief makeout session, and soon explains what happened after the fire: Low Shoulder took her into the woods and offered her as a virgin sacrifice to Satan in exchange for fame and fortune. Although the sacrifice and demonic exchange were a success, Jennifer was not a virgin. As a result, when lead singer Nikolai murdered her, the ritual backfired and a demonic spirit took over her body. Unbeknownst to Needy, Jennifer also encountered Indian exchange student Ahmet after the fire and, upon hearing that no one knew he had survived, took him into the woods and made him her first victim. Jennifer states that when she has eaten, she can withstand virtually any injury without pain, making her rather difficult to kill. At school the following day, the town is stunned by Colins death. Needy goes to the school librarys occult section and determines that Jennifer is a succubus; she is weakest when she is hungry and must feed on flesh in order to sustain her life and appearance. Needy tells Chip about her discoveries and warns him not to attend the school dance. He does not believe her, so she breaks up with him in order to protect him. Chip still goes to the dance, hoping to meet with Needy, but is instead intercepted by Jennifer, who seduces him and takes him to an abandoned pool house. Needy arrives there and finds Jennifer feeding on Chip. Needy tries to drown Jennifer but Jennifer, hovering in the air, attacks her. She is then stabbed with a pool skimmer by a fatally injured Chip. Jennifer escapes while Needy watches her boyfriend die. Needy decides she must kill Jennifer. She goes to Jennifers home and sees her, already recovered, picking out her next victims in her yearbook. Crashing through the window with a box cutter, Needy fights Jennifer and stabs her in the heart, destroying the demon and killing her. Jennifers mother enters and finds Needy with the box cutter on top of her daughters body. Soon after, Needy is brought to an asylum. As she was bitten non-fatally by Jennifer, she manifests some of Jennifers supernatural powers, such as the ability to hover in the air. Desiring revenge for what was done to her, Jennifer, and Chip, Needy escapes the mental facility and hitchhikes a ride to the hotel where Low Shoulder are staying, and brutally murders them all.
Jennifer's Body
2009