A baby elephant named Jumbo and his mother are on a passing circus train, until Jumbo falls off and rolls into Toms basket. Jumbo hides under Toms blanket as Tom goes to sleep. As Tom unawarely pushes him to get comfortable, Jumbo pulls his trunk back in time. Jumbo then steps out of the basket and runs around with Tom on top of him, causing Tom to bump his head on a cabinet. Tom, confused, goes back to sleep. Jumbo then sucks up all of Toms milk from 15 feet away, waking the cat up again. As Tom storms into the kitchen after Jerry, Jumbo hides. When Jerry is drinking milk from the refrigerator, a drop of milk falls from his whisker, leading Tom to blame Jerry. As Tom moves to smash Jerry with the milk bowl, Jumbo sucks Jerry away just in time. Tom, puzzled, walks away as Jerry and Jumbo befriend each other. Wanting to please his new friend, Jerry retrieves a bag of peanuts by standing on Jumbo, but accidentally breaks it over Jumbos head, waking Tom up for a third time. Jumbo flees, summoning Jerry with his suction, into a closet. As Tom examines the peanuts, Jumbo sucks the peanuts under the door, such that they appear marching toward the door to Yankee Doodle. This frightens the cat and leads him toward the door. As Tom tries to force entry, Jerry shares his plans to Jumbo and paints Jumbo brown with a black nose to turn him into a giant lookalike of Jerry. They then unlock the door; as Tom opens it, both Jerry and Jumbo whack him with a hammer. Tom, puzzled, peeks inside, but instantly shuts the door when he sees Jumbo. Tom grabs a baseball bat, looking to beat up Jumbo, but instead gets whacked by Jerry again. Losing his temper, Tom pulls the door open and charges in, bat at the ready, only to run into Jumbo, who faces him down and punches Tom with his trunk, hurling the cat across the room and into a desk. Tom then returns to the door and opens it for a fifth time, taking shelter behind it, but finds that nothing happens. Tom then hears a crashing noise and chases Jerry. As Tom runs back and forth, he sees Jumbo on the other side. Tom runs across a second time and sees Jerry, much to his relief, but after running across four times, he sees both Jerry and Jumbo. Tom then pokes his head over the wall. He sees Jumbo, then Jerry, then Jumbo, then Jerry. When he sees a huge mousehole next to Jerrys, Tom finally understands the situation and yelps in fear before putting a large mousetrap near Jumbos hole and fleeing. Jumbo is quick on the ball, however, turns the trap around and begins the suction. Tom peers back and gasps as he gets closer toward the trap, but before he can move or even grab onto something that can help him to escape the suction, he ends up being sucked in and gets caught in the trap, which snaps shut on his behind. Tom lets out a super loud scream of pain, and looks at his tail, which is a form of a large bump. Tom chases after Jerry, who runs into a small mouse hole. Tom gropes for Jerrys tail, but grabs Jumbos instead, causing Tom to fall back carrying Jumbo and Jumbo to flatten Tom onto the stairs. Tom, now deciding to meet force head-on, grabs a shotgun and chases Jerry, while Jumbo hides. Jumbos mother then pokes her head through the window and hugs him before scooping him up as Tom continues to shoot at Jerry. Jerry runs outside as Jumbo calls to him from the garage with a paintbrush, with Tom following. Jerry jumps out, followed by Jumbo and his mother, decked out in mouse colors too. The sight of this utterly terrifying display finally seems to break the poor cat completely. Tom leaps a foot back, and as his gun droops down like limp spaghetti, he lets out a nervous chuckle. Turning to face the camera, Tom grins insanely while mimicking the sizes of the "mice" before he runs off cackling maniacally (having gone insane) while breaking through a wall and a fence.
Jerry and Jumbo
1951