Jerry gives a sleeping goldfish a cracker, much to the goldfishs delight, and they form a friendship, while Tom is listening to French Chef Françoise on the radio talking about fish dishes, which makes Tom hungry for fish. Tom sneakily takes the goldfish, in his bowl, to the kitchen. Tom turns on the stove, chops up carrots and scallions, and puts salt onto the fish, but Jerry saves the goldfish by opening the oven door, causing Tom to fall into the oven. Jerry escapes with the goldfish, but Tom snatches the goldfish off Jerry as he runs past. Jerry trips up Tom with a baseball bat and catches the goldfish with a glass filled with water. Jerry then dodges Tom, who slams into the wall, and skips through Toms ears to reach his hole. Jerry then moves the goldfish to his bowl, but Tom catches the goldfish in a frying pan as he jumps for his bowl. Tom covers the goldfish in flour, and tosses it into his mouth, but Jerry hits Tom in the face with the pan and pulls one of Toms whiskers to open his mouth, allowing the goldfish to escape. The goldfish jumps into a cup of water with Jerry, and Tom runs through a heater and squeezes through Jerrys mousehole in order to chase them, but Jerry uses an iron to stop him. Tom shoots the cup with a pistol and steals the fish, much to Jerrys unawareness. Tom tries to roast the goldfish over a fire, but Jerry flings a cauldron onto Toms head and whacks him with a fireplace tool, causing the cauldron to vibrate. Jerry escapes carrying the fish, but Tom snaps the carpet to send the fish flying into a toaster. Tom prepares a fish sandwich, but Jerry sticks his tail through a clothes roller. Tom then holds a saucepan just above Jerrys hole to capture the fish and moves a cabinet in front of the hole to prevent Jerry from running out. Jerry travels up through a plug to where Tom is steaming the fish. Tom puts the fish underneath his foot and chops up a potato, but Jerry swaps his carrot for dynamite, grabs the fish and puts Toms tail underneath his foot, making Tom cover the saucepan with his tail. Tom runs outside and slams the door on only part his tail. After an explosion, Tom opens the door, but sees himself blasting off into the sky, away from Earth. Jerry (wearing swimming goggles) joins the goldfish in the bowl as they watch Tom being blown into outer space. Then the two friends shake hands and fin happily.
Jerry and the Goldfish
1951