Tom places a bunch of traps in front of Jerrys mouse hole. He raises a cleaver over the hole but is immediately stopped by a talking radio. The announcer, Uncle Dudley, tells him it is "Be Kind To Animals" week. Tom removes the traps he just set up and returns with flowers, a present, and a pie with, "To Jerry with Love" on it. Tom knocks on the wall but Jerry is not there. Tom removes the grate on the wall and sees that Jerry is not at home. But he does see his diary. Tom reaches in, grabs it, and starts to read it. The first entry dates on Sunday, April 5, when Tom used Jerry as a Tee when he played golf. This segues into two scenes from 1945s Tee for Two. In the first scene Tom uses Jerry as a tee, then puts Jerry through the ball cleaner. Tom is laughing while reminiscing this scene. He continues to read the next part of the entry, where he hits the ball and grins, only for it to bounce off a tree and smash his teeth. Because of this entry, Toms mood immediately goes down and he turns to another entry. The next entry dates on Thursday, May 12, when Jerry got curious about Tom and it almost got him caught. This changes to a scene from 1944s Mouse Trouble, where Tom attempts to catch Jerry by raising the mouses curiosity. Tom succeeds and catches him, but Jerry pulls the same trick on him with his fists. Tom inspects them only to get punched in the eye. Tom gets angry from what he has read and throws away the flowers in irritation. He turns to another entry which dates on Monday, June 3, when Jerry got Tom into two nasty surprises in a chase. The scene changes to 1946s Solid Serenade, where both of them bring their chase from outdoors into the kitchen. The chase ends with a window falling on Toms neck causing him to shriek in pain. Tom is now enraged at what Jerry has written about him and he destroys Jerrys present (which appears to be a box of chocolates) in frustration. He is just about to throw the diary away when he opens it again and reads one more entry dating Saturday, July 4, when Tom and Jerry fought using firecrackers. The scene changes to 1943s The Yankee Doodle Mouse, where Tom throws dynamite towards Jerry, but Jerry immediately throws it back; the mouse uses reverse psychology to make Tom grab the dynamite for himself, which explodes. Tom then traps Jerry inside a kettle and throws in a stick of dynamite. The mouse escapes as no explosion occurs. The puzzled cat opens the kettles lid, after which the firecracker goes off, leaving him resembling a blackface sunflower. Tom has finally had it and rips Jerrys diary to pieces in exasperation just as soon as the mouse comes home. He is happy to see that Tom has baked him a pie. Jerry points at the pie and then points to himself, asking if the pie is for him. Tom is just about to strangle Jerry when Uncle Dudley, via the radio, stops him once again. "And now before your old Uncle Dudley says goodbye, did you get a nice little surprise for your little animal friend?" Tom picks up the pie with a devilish smile. The radio says, "You did? Well, let him have it." Tom throws the pie on Jerry while he fishes out his hands, then Jerry, who looks rather dazed, looks into the camera and shrugs his shoulders.
Jerry's Diary
1949