At Hogans Alley, Jerrys cousin Muscles, a mouse with super strength is beating up all of his feline enemies before receiving mail from Jerry, who begs for help saying he is in serious trouble dealing with Tom. Muscles packs a bag and marches off to Jerrys home, while the remaining cats hide in fear with Butch digging himself into a grave. Upon arriving, he finds that Jerry is being mercilessly terrorized by Tom. At the house, Tom throws sticks of dynamite into Jerrys mouse hole in an attempt to destroy and kill Jerry. Muscles arrives with no introduction, grabbing a stick of dynamite and shoving it into Toms mouth, causing Toms head to explode. Tom, not knowing who Muscles is, grabs him, but Muscles easily grabs Tom and tells him not to try anything while Muscles is around or he will suffer the consequences (just like the warning by Spike in the 1944 film The Bodyguard and 1949 film Love That Pup). As Muscles reminds Tom about the warning, he throws Tom into a vase. Muscles spits on the vase with such force that the vase breaks, revealing Tom to be in the shape of the vase. Tom tries weight training to match Muscles strength before confronting him while he is eating biscuits with Jerry and whacks him on the head. Muscles blows his hand up into a large fist and punches Tom into the cuckoo clock, causing the bird to come out of Toms mouth. While Muscles is lying on Toms bed with Jerry looking around anxiously, Tom attempts to get rid of him from the ceiling by dropping a bowling ball on him, Tom rushes down the stairs but it is revealed that Muscles survived and rolls the bowling ball towards Tom and hitting him, causing Tom to turn into bowling pins before Muscles attacks him. A frightened Tom runs away and points a shotgun at Muscles, but Muscles blows through the barrel, causing the shotgun rounds to pop back out onto his eyes. Muscles then walks up the gun and whacks Tom in the back of the head, causing the shotgun rounds to go off. As a last-ditch resort, Tom calls a gang of cat thugs from a company named Dirty Work Inc. to dispose of Muscles. When the gang of cats arrive, Tom, sicks out a finger, pointing at Muscles who is off-screen. The gang proceeds to dispose of Muscles but are quickly immobilized when they fight with each other off-screen. Muscles is seen entering the kitchen and leaving with a broom and dustpan. Muscles is then seen with the three cats on the dustpan, who are then tossed out of the house by Muscles. Then, Muscles whistles at Tom who immediately kneels at his feet, kissing them repeatedly. When Muscles starts packing to leave the house, he gives Jerry an exact replica of his outfit and tells him that all he has to do is just whistle at Tom. Jerry then proceeds to dress himself in the outfit and toughens himself up to look more like Muscles before whistling at Tom, whom to Jerrys delight, starts kneeling at his feet and kissing them repeatedly.
Jerry's Cousin
1950