Criminal Edgar Munsen is pursued by the police onto a rooftop, where he activates a triggering mechanism before being shot non-fatally by Police Detective Halloran and his fellow officers. Five people are held captive in a barn, each with a metal noose around their neck. A tape recording from John Kramer explains they must give a sacrifice of blood and will need to confess their sins. The chains begin pulling them towards a wall of buzzsaws. Four manage to survive by cutting themselves on the blades as an offering of blood, but one man who was unconscious during the majority of the game appears to die. The next test divulges that group member Carly caused the death of an asthmatic woman by stealing her purse, which had her emergency inhaler inside. To save the others from being hanged, she must inject herself with one of the three needles- one containing an antidote to a poison in her system, one a saline solution, and one a potent acid. Volatile group member Ryan eventually stabs Carly with all three to save himself, melting her face and killing her. Detectives Halloran and Hunt begin investigating the discovery of bodies that appear to belong to the unnamed man and Carly. Halloran becomes suspicious of forensic pathologists Logan, a veteran and former doctor whose wife was killed two years prior, and Eleanor. Munsen is kidnapped from the hospital by an unseen assailant. When the police commissioner orders Kramers grave be exhumed, Munsens dead body is found inside instead. Ryan tries escaping through a door marked "No Exit", and is trapped by wires that ensnare his leg. Fellow group members Anna and Mitch discover an unlocked door, and are trapped inside a grain silo. A taped message explains they will be buried in grain and killed by falling debris unless Ryan pulls a lever that will free him from the wires around his leg. Anna and Mitch survive, but Ryans leg is severed when he pulls the lever. Logan and Eleanor speak about their mutual distrust of Halloran. Eleanor takes Logan to her "studio" where she reveals that she is an obsessive fangirl of the Jigsaw case, and has built replicas of Kramers traps. Shes worried her obsession might incriminate her. Detective Hunt has followed them, and informs Halloran of the studio. The next test reveals Mitch knowingly sold a motorcycle with a faulty brake to Kramers nephew, resulting in his death. Mitch will be lowered into a spiral-shaped blade unless he can reach for a brake lever. Though fellow group-member Anna attempts to help him, he is shredded by the blade and killed. Halloran calls for Eleanor and Logans arrest after a corpse appearing to belong to Mitch is discovered in the studio. Logan convinces Hunt to let them go, as both suspect Halloran to be responsible. Eleanor has deduced the games location, and she and Logan depart for the barn. Halloran pursues them. Meanwhile, Hunt finds puzzle-piece shaped pieces of human flesh in Hallorans freezer, fitting Jigsaws M.O. and implicating Halloran as a copycat killer. Anna attempts to slip through a doorway to freedom, only to be captured. She finds herself and Ryan chained in a room with a hooded figure, who is revealed to be a still-living John Kramer. Kramer reveals that Anna suffocated her infant in a fit of rage and blamed it on her sleeping husband by planting the body next to him. Her husband later committed suicide, thinking he accidentally smothered his own baby. It is also revealed that Ryan accidentally caused the death of several of his friends years prior in a car accident but managed to escape blame. Kramer tells them they have gotten his message "backwards". He places a loaded shotgun between them and tells them it is the "key" to their survival. Anna attempts to shoot Ryan, but the gun, which is revealed to be rigged, backfires and instead kills her. Ryan realizes that the keys to his and Annas chains were in the gun, and destroyed when Anna pulled the trigger, leaving no hope of escape. Logan and Eleanor investigate the barn, but are ambushed by Halloran. Eleanor escapes, and Halloran is drugged by an unseen assailant. Logan and Halloran awaken in collars rigged with laser cutters. They are told they must confess their sins to survive and may choose who goes first. Halloran forces Logan to go first. Logan confesses that he mislabeled Kramers X-Rays years prior, which caused his cancer to go undiagnosed until it was too late. Despite confessing, Logan appears to die. Halloran is tested next. He admits to having allowed criminals to walk free for personal gain, and his collar deactivates. Suddenly Logan stands, revealing that he faked his death in order to get Halloran to confess, and that the barn game in fact took place ten years ago. He was the man who appeared to die in the first game, but Kramer, feeling he should not die because of an honest mistake, saved him and recruited him. The bodies that were found were actually the bodies of criminals Halloran allowed to walk free. Logan placed them into the same tests that he was meant to face ten years prior. Logan also reveals that Munsen, one of the criminals Halloran let go, was responsible for murdering his wife. However, because Halloran didnt confess all of his sins, and broke the rules to force Logan to go first, he will die and be framed as the Jigsaw copycat killer. Logan reactivates the laser-collar around Hallorans neck and his head is sliced apart, killing him. Having succeeded in his plan, Logan declares that he speaks for the dead.
Jigsaw (2017 film)
2017