The film begins at an Air Force base somewhere in Colorado. The Air Force radar detects an unidentified flying object (UFO), so they send planes up to examine the situation. The pilots discover that it is a rocket carrying two boys and a robotic dog: Jimmy Neutron, Carl Wheezer and Goddard. Jimmy is attempting to launch a communications satellite made out of a toaster, in the hopes of communicating with an alien, and believes that an alien species exists somewhere out in the universe, despite his parents Hugh and Judys protest in talking to strangers. After school, Jimmy, Carl, and their friend Sheen spot a poster for an amusement park called "Retroland." However, Jimmys parents refuse to let him go that night because it is a school night, and as a result, Jimmy is grounded for causing a fire with one of his inventions. Meanwhile, Jimmys communications satellite is picked up near the planet Yolkus, home to an alien race called the Yolkians, who commandeer their warships that look like a fleet of rubber chickens. King Goobot V and his assistant, Ooblar, watch a pre-recorded message from Jimmy, featuring him introducing himself and explaining about life on Earth, with Goobot declaring "the search is over". Jimmy, Carl, and Sheen subsequently choose to sneak out and visit the park advised by Nick Dean, a popular kid. As the three are at the park, the Yolkians kidnap all the adults in the city, leaving fake notes on the refrigerators to tell the kids that they have gone to Florida for an "extended vacation". Coincidentally, Carl spots a shooting star (actually a Yolkian ship), so he, Jimmy and Sheen wish for no more parents so they can have fun all the time. The next morning, the kids discover the parents have all disappeared and celebrate for the whole day. However, all children quickly begin to miss their parents. The following day, after hearing a message from his parents that Goddard had recorded while posing as Jimmy last night, Jimmy becomes suspicious of the fact that his parents said that they would see him in the morning despite not being there. He discovers what has really happened. Jimmy organizes the other children in town to build spaceships from the Retroland rides to travel to Yolkus and get their parents back. Eventually, they are captured by Goobot, who tells them that the parents are to be sacrificed to their god, Poultra. He shows the kids Jimmys video, thanking him for helping him find suitable species for their ritual, before having the children locked up in their cells, with the exception of Goddard, who is taken by Ooblar to the lab, where he will be dismantled. With Jimmy feeling guilty over the fact that his actions led to the Yolkans abducting the parents in the first place, his rival Cindy Vortex convinces him to stand up and think of an escape plan. After breaking out with the help of Goddard, the children (with the exception of Nick, as he turns out not so brave what he previously seemed to be), in accordance with Jimmys plan, manage to stop the parents from being sacrificed to Poultra the giant chicken. Everyone escapes aboard a Yolkian ship, but Goobot follows them in his ship at the head of the Yolkian fleet. With the exception of Goobots ship, all of the Yolkian ships are destroyed when Jimmy baits them into flying too close to Yolkus sun. Jimmy and Goddard then use an experimental shrink ray to grow to the size of a planet, and blow Goobots ship into an asteroid: Goobot and Ooblar survive the explosion, and Goobot declares that they have not seen the last of him and vows revenge. Jimmy and the rest of the kids reconcile with their parents and head home. In a final scene of the film, Jimmy and Carl have breakfast during which Jimmys parents drink one of his experiments (that causes significant belching), thinking it is real soda and they all laugh out loud.
Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius (film)
2001