Howard Langston is a workaholic mattress salesman with no time for his wife, Liz, and his 9-year-old son, Jamie — especially when compared to next door "superdad" divorcee, Ted Maltin, who continually puts Howard in a bad light. After missing Jamies karate class graduation, Howard resolves to redeem himself by fulfilling Jamies ultimate Christmas wish: getting an action figure toy of Turbo-Man, a wildly popular TV superhero. On Christmas Eve, Howard sets out to buy a Turbo-Man doll at a store, telling Liz that he already has one at work that he must retrieve. Along the way, Howard meets Myron Larabee, a postal worker dad with a rival ambition, and the two soon become bitter competitors in their race for the action figure. During his search, Howard runs his car into the parked police motorcycle of Officer Hummel, who earlier pulled him over and gave him a ticket. After several failed attempts to find the toy in a store, Howard attempts to buy a Turbo-Man from a Mall of America Santa, who is actually the leader of a band of counterfeit toy makers. When he accuses the Santa of undermining the values of Christmas (having been ripped off and sold a defective toy that falls apart the moment he opened the package), Howard ends up in a brawl with the gang. He narrowly escapes when the police raid their warehouse and gets out by posing as an undercover detective using a toy badge. Later, Howard arrives at Mickeys Diner and uses their phone to call home. As he tried to get a hold of Liz, he unintentionally scolds at Jamie on the phone over Turbo-Man. Despite Howard instantly regretting it, Jamie rebukes his father about how he never keeps his promises and hangs up, with Liz witnessing what happened. Howard then encounters Myron at the diner. As they sat down and talk, Myron tells Howard about the time when his father was unable to get him a Johnny Seven OMA toy on Christmas. They hear on the KQRS radio station that there is a trivia competition in which the winner will receive a Turbo-Man doll. They rush to the studio, with Howard breaking the door to the recording booth, under the impression that the DJ has a Turbo-Man doll in the studio. After Myron threatens to blow up the studio with a package he claims is a mail bomb, he and Howard find out that whoever wins the competition will get a doll "eventually." The package is revealed to be a music box. The police, led by Officer Hummell, arrive in the studio, and Myron bluffs the police into backing off by threatening them with another "mail bomb,"(unaware that it actually is one) allowing him and Howard to escape. Hummell, claiming to have been in the bomb squad, examines the package and declares it to be a false alarm. He confidently rips open the package and it explodes, leaving his face covered in soot. After his car is stripped by thieves, Howard is ultimately forced to return home empty-handed. Outside his home, he sees Ted in his house placing the star on his tree. In anger, Howard breaks into Teds house and steals the Turbo-Man doll for Teds son from under his tree. He realizes that he is stealing from a child and changes his mind. He is attacked by Teds pet reindeer, accidentally setting one of Teds decorations on fire, and kicking it out the window trying to stamp it out, drawing the attention of Ted and Liz. Seeing the Turbo-Man present still in Howards hand, Ted thinks Howard was trying to steal it. Liz, having had enough, leaves with Jamie, Ted, and his son Johnny to the local Christmas parade. The reindeer tries to attack Howard only to be knocked out by him. After making peace with the reindeer, Howard decides it was time he fulfilled his promises and makes his way to the parade. At the parade, Ted makes a pass at Liz and she hits him with a thermos of eggnog. Howard witnesses Teds actions from a distance, and on his way to confront him, he runs into Officer Hummell, spilling his hot coffee all over him. Hummell recognizes Howard from the studio earlier, causing a chase. Howard is able to escape by hiding in a building where he is mistaken as the replacement actor for Turbo-Man. As the "real" Turbo-Man, he presents the coveted limited-edition Turbo-Man doll to his son. Before Howard can reveal himself, Myron, who has dressed as Turbo-Mans arch enemy Dementor (having caught, tied up and gagged the real actor) appears. Having now become obsesseed of getting the doll, Myron attacks Howard and chases Jamie up to a roof, while the crowd except for Liz think its all part of the show. Jamie climbs up to a metal Christmas tree with Myron following. The weight of the two causes the wires supporting the tree to break and tip the tree over the edge with the two hanging on. Using the Turbo-Man suits utilities, Howard throws a Turbo-Rang at Myron which misses. Myron seizes the Turbo-Man doll from Jamies backpack and before he can celebrate, the Turbo-Rang comes flying back, hitting him and causing him to fall down below into the streets. He lands into a giant Christmas present without serious injury and is captured by the police. Jamie loses his grip and falls only to be saved by Howard, using the suits jetpack. After the show, Jamie feels guilty for yelling at Howard earlier. Howard, still dressed as Turbo-Man, tells Jamie that his father will always love him, before revealing himself to his son. Officer Hummell gives the doll to Jamie, then asks Howard (as Turbo-Man) to join the police force, saluting him. Howard turns and reveals himself and Hummell is dumbfounded, as Howard apologizes for all the trouble. Myron is arrested while ranting about having to explain his failure to get the Turbo-Man toy for his son. Jamie decides to give the doll to him, much to Myron and Howards surprise. When asked why he gave it up, Jamie tells Howard that he has "the real Turbo-Man at home." During the after-credits scene, it is snowing outside. Howard puts the star on the top of his tree and celebrates Christmas with Jamie and Liz. Liz commends Howard for everything hes done just to make Jamie happy, and then asks Howard what he got her for Christmas. Howard stares in shock at the camera before the fadeout.
Jingle All the Way
1996