According to Dread Central, the producers claim the film will "introduce the accurate mythological concept of the jinn to Western audiences".  In the Beginning, Three were Created... Man made of Clay. Angels made of Light. And a Third...made of Fire. From the beginning, stories of angels and men have captured our imaginations and have been etched into our history crossing all boundaries of culture, religion, and time. These two races have dominated the landscape of modern mythology for countless centuries, almost washing away the evidence that a third ever existed. This third race, born of smokeless fire, was called the jinn. Similar to humans in many ways, the jinn lived invisibly among us and only under dire or unusual circumstances were our paths ever meant to cross. As humans became the dominant force on Earth, contact between man and jinn steadily decreased. Modern man has all but forgotten the jinn. In 1901, a man enters a forest and comes to encounter an abandon shack with the jinn sitting and waiting on the man. He started to recite a prayer and the jinn attacks him. The man, Jehamgir Amin, tries to grab the bottle of holy water but drops it and the jinn pulls him into the hole. The man climbs his way out and as the jinn attacks him he throws the holy water on it and it retreats. The jinn swears vengeance and curses the mans family down through the generations. The man and the jinn charge at each other and the screen goes to black. A 113 years later, Shawn and Jasmine are a happy couple living in California. Shawn gets a delivery, an early birthday present of a note and VHS tape. While receiving the tape he looks over to his neighbors apartment and sees a figure staring out of the window waving at them. Later in the day Shawn tells his wife about how excited he was to design his own car and how his boss was giving him a raise. He tells her that he thinks theyre ready to have their first child, but Jasmine tells him that its impossible for her to have children. Sad over the realization, Shawn leaves to go think. Shawn is parked in a parking lot, and trying to decide on whether to say something to Jasmine or not. As hes thinking, he hears sounds and thinks someone is outside. He hears something call his name and tries to call Jasmine but she doesnt answer, so he rushes home. When he gets home he finds his furniture all stacked on top of each other and his wife missing, so he calls the police. As he talks to the police, Jasmine comes in and he is relieved. When weird things begin happening at home, there is a mysterious phone call directing Shawn and Jasmine to a cathedral in town, where they meet Father Westhoff and Gabriel, who reveal the issue of jinn. Shawn doesnt believe this and he and Jasmine get ready to leave, but are prompted by Father Westhoff to visit Shawns adoptive parents. They go to see Shawns parents, and are surprised to have Father Westhoffs story corroborated. As they are leaving, they get attacked by an unseen force and it takes Jasmine. Shawn goes back up with Gabe, they leave to gather info from Ali, Shawns estranged uncle. He shows him that his wife is pregnant. As they leave, Ali, senses that the jinn have been spying on them and are there to attack him, he warns them to leave. As they are running, Gabe sacrifices himself so that Shawn can do what hes destined to do. To the viewers shock it is revealed that Gabriel is a jinn, he doesnt survive his fight with the rest of the jinn. Now relying solely on Father Westhoff for help, Shawn finds out the reason the jinn are after him, so Father Westhoff sends him on a quest to learn how to defeat the jinn. Shawn manages to draw the jinn back to his apartment where they have their final battle. Surviving, he must now confront the primary jinn from his great-grandfathers run-in over 100 years ago. Ali is with him, having passed his own test and leaving the asylum. The two of them fight valiantly but it appears the jinn is only toying with them. Shawn manages to get the last piece of the spirit quest in place and defeats the jinn. Jinns from different dimensions come and ask Shawn for peace but Shawn wanted them to leave him alone, so he kills one of them as a warning to the others. Still frantic for his wife, Father Westhoff is able to show him Jasmine safe and sound in the church along with the once-dead Gabriel. A year later, Shawn, Jasmine, and Ali are at the apartment with their new baby boy. As all of them are sitting in the dining room, the baby drops his pacifier. Ali and Shawn both bend down to pick it up, but it moves without being touched from the floor to the babys mouth. They look at each other knowing that their son has the power to defeat the jinn.
Jinn (film)
2014