"This is the story of a waltzing mouse. His name was Johann and he lived in Vienna (Austria) in the home of Johann Strauss," narrates Hans Conried. In the walls of the house of Johann Strauss lived Johann Mouse, portrayed by Jerry. Little Johann loved Strauss music, and whenever the musician would play, the mouse would dance. And whenever the mouse would dance, Strauss housecat, portrayed by Tom, would try to catch him but always fail. One day, Strauss goes away on a journey, leaving Tom in a serious predicament (knowing that without music, Johann wouldnt dance). He picks up a manual on top of the piano: "How To Play The Waltz In Six Easy Lessons by Johann Strauss." Tom charges upstairs into the attic and teaches himself how to play, following the guidebook (which consists of how to correctly play the first eight/nine notes of The Blue Danube, in proper sequence), and after just six lessons, he is instantaneously an accomplished pianist. Tom takes to the piano downstairs and the mouse is mesmerised by the music into dancing. Tom attempts to squash Johann with a poker, and as he stops playing to hit Johann, the mouse is roused from his spell and scrambles back towards the hole — until Tom resumes playing. Johann turns around, hypnotized once again. The heads of some servants -wondering who was playing in their masters absence- pop through the door, observing the talented duo. As Tom grabs Johann, the servants applaud. Tom puts Johann down and returns to the piano, with Johann dancing again under a powerful spell. The news quickly spreads around Vienna, reaching even the ears of the Emperor himself. Tom and Johann are summoned by a royal writ from the Imperial Palace to perform before the Court. The next scene opens upon the throne hall, with the entire court in attendance (also heard in the beginning of the scene is "Kaiser-Walzer"). In the middle is a white grand piano. The doors open to reveal Tom and Johann, both in tail-coats and bow-ties, who bow to the Emperor and enter the ballroom. Tom begins playing "Tritsch-Tratsch-Polka", and Jerry/Johann begins waltzing, occasionally using Toms fingers as a dancing partner. After the narrator says "But, when the cat stopped playing..." Tom gives into his impulses and tries to capture Jerry, and Jerry again escapes into a hole in the wall. "It was the same old story", the narrator concludes. Jerry comes out from his hole and dances. When he finishes dancing, he bows to rapturous applause. Tom turns the page to reveal the end of the cartoon (saying The End). Then it reads "An MGM Tom and Jerry Cartoon. Made in Hollywood, USA." as usual.
Johann Mouse
1953