David Wong, a slacker, recalls confronting a zombie skinhead whom he beheaded one year prior and wonders whether an axe that had its handle and head replaced over time is still the same axe. In the present day, he meets with small time reporter, Arnie Blondestone, to recount the supernatural events that plagued the small, undisclosed city David lives in. Some time ago, David is at a party with his friend John, with acquaintances Fred Chu, Justin White, along with high school classmate Amy Sullivan, who has an amputated hand. David learns that Amys dog, Bark Lee, has gone missing after biting Robert Marley, a drug dealer who pretends to be Jamaican. As he leaves the party, David sees Bark next to his car. A frantic, incoherent John calls Dave, demanding he come over at once. At Johns apartment, David finds a syringe containing a black-colored drug, oblivious to a bizarre creature only John can see. John tells David that the drug, "Soy Sauce", given to him by Marley, grants inhuman knowledge when taken, along with dumping the user in alternate dimensions and timestreams, as demonstrated by a past version of John calling present Dave. As they drive off, David is bitten by the suddenly animate syringe, propelling him through alternate dimensions. Returning to the present, a strange man, Roger North, appears in the backseat, attempting to offer Dave advice on the strange events, but disappears when Dave threatens him. Detective Lawrence Appleton questions the two at a police station about the party. Appleton reveals that John and White were the only survivors of a drug-fueled afterparty thrown by Robert Marley - everyone else either disappeared, or suffered grisly, bizarre deaths. In the present, an incredulous Arnie tries to leave, but Dave convinces him to stay after showing him a strange monster. During questioning, John apparently dies. Despite this, John telepathically contacts Dave, helping him escape from the police station and a ghost that appears as a cop, and guides him to Marleys house. Marleys Soy Sauce knocks Dave unconcious. He wakes up to see Appleton preparing to burn down the trailer, who tells him Johns body disappeared, and that the Soy Sauce is letting in some kind of evil force. Appleton shoots David, who survives by time-traveling and tampering with the round he was shot with. Bark, controlled by John, drives Davids car through the wall, allowing him to escape. In his house, David is subdued by a possessed White. White kidnaps David, Fred, Amy, Bark and John, taking them to an abandoned mall, hoping to use a ghostly door inside to travel to another dimension. John manipulates White into going outside, where Appleton kills him. Appleton then explodes into a swarm of demonic insects, who possess Fred. David reluctantly kills him. Amy opens the ghost door with her phantom limb, allowing John and Dave passage. They meet North and Albert Marconi, a celebrity psychic and exorcist. They have teamed up against Korrok, an eldritch biological supercomputer that has turned into a genocidal god, who uses the Soy Sauce to open up new dimensions to conquer. Marconi gives David and John a LSD-laced nuclear bomb to incapacitate Korrok with. The two step through a portal to an alternate Earth. Disciples of Korrok greet them as "chosen ones" and present a brutal utilitarian society, where dissenters are horribly maimed by Korroks monsters. The duo are brought before Korrok, who plans to devour them, absorb their knowledge to conquer their dimension. John tries to activate the bomb, but fumbles. Bark Lee, who followed the two, grabs the bomb and flings himself into Korrok, detonating it and destroying the two of them. Upon escaping, David and John meet Marconi and learn that Bark was meant to defeat Korrok all along - after biting a Soy Sauce-addled Marley, it linked him to Marconi and North. Amy becomes Davids girlfriend. David and John become exorcists and demon hunters, with Marconis assistance. In the present, Arnie reluctantly decides to publish the story, despite fears of damaging his career. Dave realizes Arnie is a ghost, noticing inconsistencies in his background - the real Arnie is dead in the trunk, killed by an unknown force. Seeing this, Arnie vanishes. Later, John and Dave play basketball, and inadvertently wind up in a post-apocalyptic dimension. A paramilitary organization informs them they are chosen ones who will restore the world, but an annoyed John and Dave walk off.
John Dies at the End (film)
2013