Jubal Troop (Glenn Ford) is a cowboy who is found in a weakened condition, without a horse. He is given shelter at Shep Horgans (Ernest Borgnine) large ranch, where he quickly makes an enemy in Pinky (Rod Steiger), a cattleman who accuses Jubal of carrying the smell of sheep. Horgan is a cheerful, agreeable fellow who is married to an attractive, much younger woman named Mae (Valerie French) whom he met in Canada. He takes an immediate shine to Jubal and offers him a permanent job. Behind his back, Mae also has taken a liking to Jubal, which she expresses to him in no uncertain terms. Horgan has been impressed with Jubals work ethic and makes him foreman over the other cowhands. That further antagonizes Pinky, whom Horgan does not trust. Jubal fends off Maes advances while developing an interest in Naomi (Felicia Farr), a young woman from a traveling wagon train of an unnamed religious group that the cowboys call "rawhiders." Pinky and the other cowboys try to run off the strangers and resent Jubals interference on their behalf. Jubals only ally is a drifter named Reb (Charles Bronson), who has attached himself to the wagon train. With Jubals recommendation, Reb is hired to help him at the ranch. Pinky, who has carried on with Mae behind her husbands back, tells Horgan that his wife and Jubal have betrayed him. Horgan demands the truth from Mae, who angrily responds that she cant stand him and lies that Jubal has been seeing her. An enraged Horgan rides to town and confronts Jubal, intending to kill him. Reb flips a gun to Jubal just in time and Horgan is shot dead. Pinky makes another play for Mae, then beats her savagely when she pushes him away. Pinky then rallies the others to go after Jubal, persuading them that he stole Horgans wife and murdered him. A posse gets the truth from a dying Mae, that her accusations toward Jubal were completely untrue. She also reveals that Pinky beat her, just before she dies. The posse slowly circles Pinky and its clear they intend to hang him. Jubal rides away with Naomi and Reb.
Jubal (film)
1956