The young Lillian and her friend Julia, daughter of a wealthy family being brought up by her grandparents in the U.S., enjoy a childhood together and an extremely close relationship in late adolescence. Later, while medical student/physician Julia (Vanessa Redgrave) attends Oxford and the University of Vienna and studies with such luminaries as Sigmund Freud, Lillian (Jane Fonda), a struggling writer, suffers through revisions of her play with her mentor and sometime lover, famed author Dashiell Hammett (Jason Robards) at a beachhouse. Julias school in Vienna is overrun by Nazi thugs and Julia is severely injured trying to protect her colleagues. Lillian receives word of Julias condition, and rushes to Vienna to be with her. Julia is taken away for "treatment" and Lillian is unable to find her again since the hospital denies any knowledge of her being treated there. She remains in Europe to try to find Julia again, but is unsuccessful. Later, during the Nazi era, Lillian has become a celebrated playwright, and is invited to a writers conference in Russia. Julia, having taken on the battle against Nazism, enlists Lillian en route to smuggle money into Nazi Germany to assist the anti-Nazi cause. It is a dangerous mission especially for a Jewish intellectual on her way to Russia. Lillian departs for Russia via Berlin and the movements of her person, and placement of her possessions (a hat and a box of candy), are carefully guided by compatriots of Julia through border crossings and inspections. In Berlin, Lillian is told to go to a cafe where she finds Julia. They are able to speak only briefly. Julia divulges that the "treatment" she received in the hospital in Vienna was the amputation of her leg. Julia tells her that the money she has brought will save 500 to 1,000 people, many of them Jews. Lillian also learns that Julia has a daughter, Lily, who is living with a baker in Alsace. After Lilian leaves Julia in the cafe and boards the train to Moscow, a man tells her to avoid passing through Germany again after she leaves Russia. Julia is stabbed and fatally wounded in her room by Nazi agents. When Lillian reaches London, she is informed that Julia has been killed although the details of her death are shrouded in secrecy. Lillian unsuccessfully looks for Julias daughter in Alsace. She returns to the United States and is reunited with Dashiel Hammett. She is haunted by her memories of Julia and is distraught over not having found Julias baby. She is shocked that Julias family pretends not to remember Lillian, clearly wanting to excise from their memory a daughter who refused to conform at a time when conformity caused the murder of many innocent people. The film ends with an image of Lillian Hellman seated in a boat alone, fishing. She reveals in voiceover that she continued to live with Hammett for another 30 years, and outlived him by several more.
Julia (1977 film)
1977