One evening, while being physically abused by his father, David Rice unexpectedly teleports (or "jumps") and finds himself in the local library. The origin of this power is never explained. Vowing never to return to his fathers house, David makes his way to New York City. After being mugged and discovering that he cant get a job without a birth certificate and/or social security number, David robs a local bank by teleporting inside the safe, stealing nearly a million dollars. He then begins a life of reading, attending plays, and dining in fancy restaurants. At a play, he meets a woman named Millie Harrison, and they spend some time touring New York before she returns to college in Stillwater, Oklahoma. David later visits her in Oklahoma, and they attend a party, where he accidentally runs into Millies ex-boyfriend, Mark, who tries to fight him, forcing David to jump Mark away, unnoticed. Feeling bad for David, Millie invites him to stay the night at her place. The two officially start a romantic relationship and make love. Millie and David continue to see each other and begin to fall in love. David manages to locate and reunite with his long-lost mother, Mary Niles. Mary left the family after being severely beaten by Davids father, and all her attempts to contact David over the years were intercepted by his father. The New York police start investigating David after he saves a neighbor from an attack by jumping her abusive husband to a park; the husband turns out to be a police officer. The investigation drives David to move to Oklahoma, where he gets an apartment near Millie. One night while David is out, the police are in his New York City apartment when Millie calls. The police inform her of their investigation of him. David confronts Millie and tries to explain, but Millie breaks up with him and tells him to go. Out of anger, David jumps in front of her, back to his apartment in Stillwater. After a few weeks, David finds himself missing Millie and starts receiving letters from her, a way of reconciling. While watching the news, Mary, who was on a business trip, is murdered by terrorists when her plane is hijacked. David then sets out to find Rashid Matar, the terrorist responsible for his mothers death. David starts jumping to Algeria to search for Matar, having to dodge the police almost every time he is there. While at Marys funeral, David meets his father for the first time in years and is interrogated by the police again. While he is searching for the terrorist, he and Millie go out on their first date in months together. David tells her everything, even the bank robbery, which shes a little upset about. Despite everything that he has told her, his ability to jump and the money he stole, Millie confesses that she misses him and is deeply in love with him. David and Millie officially restart their relationship. However, the National Security Agency, led by veteran agent Brian Cox, becomes suspicious when it finds out he can get from Algeria to the United States in only a few hours. When he is questioned, David jumps out of the NSA office, witnessed by Cox and several other agents. Cox and the NSA then become determined to capture David so they can use his powers. David has Millie go stay with her parents, while at the same time they see each other in secret. After numerous failures to grab David, Cox takes Millie hostage in order to get to him. David strikes back by grabbing Cox, and later captures Matar and his abusive father—thereby putting him in the unique position of controlling the fates of all three of his tormentors. This experience has profound effects on all four of them. David finds himself unable to kill his captives despite their crimes against him and ultimately releases them. David turns Matar over to the authorities, threatening to come after him again if he isnt found guilty of his crimes. His father is forced to acknowledge his abuse of David and Mary and enters alcoholic counseling. Cox is forced to see the similarities between his actions and those of the terrorist and the wife-beating alcoholic, has Millie released, and agrees to stop hunting David. Both David and Millie go away with each other. Afterward, Millie comforts David as he realizes that he cannot escape his pain through teleportation or vigilante action, and he enters counseling as well.
Jumper (novel)
2008