Earth and countless other planets were established by families of transhuman and alien royalty for the purpose of later "harvesting" the resulting organisms to produce a type of youth serum for the elites on other planets. After the death of the matriarch of the House of Abrasax, the most powerful of the alien dynasties, her children, Balem, Kalique, and Titus, quarrel over the inheritance, with Balem inheriting an enormous refinery on Jupiter and Titus spending his inheritance on a lavish spaceship, declaring his intention to dismantle the youth serum trade, of which Earth is the next intended source. Jupiter Jones cleans the homes of wealthy neighbors. To buy a telescope, Jupiter agrees to sell her egg cells with the help of her cousin Vladie, under the name of her friend Katharine Dunlevy. At Katharines house, Jupiter and Katharine are attacked by extraterrestrial Keepers; and when Jupiter photographs these, they erase both of their memories of the incident. Jupiter stumbles upon the strange photograph on her phone while waiting at an egg donation clinic, but cannot recall anything about it. During the procedure, the doctors and nurses are revealed to be Keepers sent to kill her, and she is saved by Caine Wise, a former soldier sent by Titus to bring her to him. While Caine and Jupiter ascend to a ship, it is destroyed by a squad of Keepers who then attack them. Caine fends off the attack and manages to kill the Keepers and hijack one of their vehicles while protecting Jupiter. Afterwards, Caine realizes that Jupiter must be of great significance to both Titus and Balem, who is revealed to have sent the Keepers to Earth to capture her. He takes Jupiter to the hideout of Stinger Apini, another former soldier living in exile on Earth. As Jupiter discovers that she can control the bees in Stingers residence, she is revealed to be galactic royalty. Stinger agrees to help Jupiter, but a group of hunters who initially were hired by Balem but bribed by Kalique capture her and take her to Kaliques palace on a distant planet, where Kalique explains that Jupiter is genetically identical to the dead matriarch, and therefore the Earths rightful owner. Supported by Captain Diomika Tsing of the Aegis (an intergalactic police force), Caine retrieves her from Kalique, and takes her to the planet Ores (the intergalactic capital planet) to claim her inheritance. In another attempt to lure Jupiter to him, Balem sends Greeghan to kidnap Jupiters family. On the way back to Earth, Tituss henchmen capture Jupiter and detain Caine, as punishment for not bringing Jupiter to him as promised. Titus reveals to Caine his plan to marry and kill Jupiter and claim Earth. He then throws Caine into the void of space; but Caine survives and returns with Stinger to save Jupiter at the altar before she completes the marriage contract. Jupiter asks to return home, but learns that her family has been taken hostage by Balem. In his refinery in the Great Red Spot, Balem demands Earth in exchange for Jupiters family. Realizing that Balem can "harvest" Earth only with her permission, Jupiter refuses. Caine infiltrates the refinery and damages its gravity hull, causing the refinery to begin collapsing. While the occupants evacuate the refinery, Tsings ship moves in and rescues Jupiters family. Jupiter survives the collapsing structures, only to land at the feet of Balem who tries to kill her; but she fights him off, and is rescued by Caine while Balem falls to his death. As the refinery is in its final stages of collapse, Tsing opens a portal to Earth and prepares to evacuate, potentially leaving Caine and Jupiter behind. However, she is relieved to find that they have survived and crossed the portal along with Tsings ship. Jupiters family is returned home with no memory of their disappearance, while Jupiter secretly retains ownership of the Earth. Caines rank in the Legion is restored, and he and Jupiter begin a relationship.
Jupiter Ascending
2015