Terri Griffith is an aspiring teenage journalist in Phoenix who feels that her teachers dont take her articles seriously because of her good looks. After failing to get her dream job as a newspaper intern, she comes to the conclusion that it is because she is a girl. With her parents out of town on a two-week Caribbean vacation, Terri decides to remedy the situation. Enrolling at a rival high school, she enlists the help of her little brother, Buddy, and her best friend Denise to disguise herself as a boy. Along the way she meets Rick Morehouse, a nerd who becomes her pet project. After helping him through an image makeover and encouraging him to start talking to girls, Terri starts to fall for him. After many episodes in and out of school, including fending off a group of bullies led by bodybuilder Greg Tolan, dealing with her real college boyfriend Kevin and being set up on a blind date with a potential new girlfriend named Sandy, Terri manages to be accepted as "one of the guys". However, she is stunned when she turns in an article and her teacher still criticizes her work, making Terri realize her gender and looks were never the issue. At the senior prom, a jealous Greg picks a fight with Rick, who ultimately trounces the bully in front of the entire class. When Terris boyfriend shows up unexpectedly and discovers the ruse, Rick assumes that Terris big secret was that she was gay. To prove otherwise, Terri opens her shirt and reveals her breasts to Rick. Although she admits to loving him, Rick rejects her, prompting a desperate Terri to kiss him in front of everyone. To placate the awestruck students, Rick derisively announces that Terri "has tits" before leaving the prom and Terri behind. Heartbroken and humiliated, Terri retreats to her room and writes a long article on what it is like to be a girl in boys clothing, detailing all of her experiences, both good and bad. Terri returns to her own school. When her article is printed in the newspaper, she receives high praise and finally earns her dream job at the newspaper. Nevertheless, she still finds herself yearning for Rick, who has not spoken to her since the prom. One day during the summer, Rick suddenly turns up after reading her article. Realizing their true feelings for each other, they reconcile and make plans for another date. They decide to go for a drive in Terris car, but before Buddy can join them, an attractive blonde on a motorcycle rides up and beckons to him with a smile. Buddy then climbs onto the back of her motorcycle, and both couples happily drive away.
Just One of the Guys
1985