On a rainy night, national hero Robert Forrest drives his car onto a small bridge that has collapsed. He is killed and the entire United States goes into deep mourning. Admirer and renowned journalist Stephen OMalley (Spencer Tracy) returns from Europe to write a biography of the great man. Among the throngs covering the funeral, he finds his old friends and fellow reporters, Jane Harding (Audrey Christie) and Freddie Ridges (Stephen McNally). They remain after the rest of the press leave. Forrests widow, Christine (Katharine Hepburn), refuses to speak to reporters throughout the proceedings. However, OMalley befriends youngster Jeb (Darryl Hickman), son of the gatekeeper of the Forrest estate, Jason Rickards (Howard Da Silva). The grief-stricken boy shows him a way into the mansion, where he meets Christine. Though she is cordial enough, she refuses any cooperation with his biography. After OMalley leaves, Forrests private secretary, Clive Kerndon (Richard Whorf), fearful of how the reporter will react to the brushoff, convinces Christine to offer her help so that they can steer him in the direction they want. As time goes on, OMalley gains the widows trust. Christine is the "keeper of the flame", protecting her husbands memory and reputation. OMalleys instincts tell him that some secret is being kept from him. He discovers that Forrests elderly, mentally ill mother (Margaret Wycherly) is living in a separate house on the vast estate. Despite her servants attempts to keep them apart, he manages to speak with her and obtains more clues from her ramblings. OMalley notices "the arsenal", an old fortification near the Forrest mansion that served as Robert Forrests office and library. One afternoon, OMalley observes smoke rising from the arsenals chimney. When he asks Kerndon about the buildings purpose, Kerndon (who cannot see the smoke) tells him it is only a storehouse. OMalley slips away to investigate. He discovers Christine burning what she claims are love letters, but he suspects otherwise. Later, Kerndon telephones somebody and assures the unnamed party that he will take care of the situation. As OMalley learns more, he begins to wonder if Christine and her cousin, Geoffrey Midford (Forrest Tucker), are lovers and murderers. However, Geoffreys announcement of his engagement to Rickards daughter, and Christines reaction, discounts that theory. When OMalley admits he cares for Christine, she finally breaks down and reveals the ugly truth. Her husband had been corrupted by the power and adulation he received. He became a fascist, plotting to gain control of the United States and use his enormous influence to turn Americans to fascist ideals. She shows OMalley papers stored in the arsenal which reveal how Forrest (backed by secretive, ultra-wealthy, power-hungry individuals) planned to use racism, anti-union feeling, and antisemitism to divide the country, turning one group against another if it became too powerful to control, in order to create the chaos that would let him seize power. Christine discovered the plot the day before her husbands death. She went riding the next morning and came upon the washed-out bridge. She could have warned her husband, but decided that a "clean death in the rain was the best thing that could happen to Robert Forrest". OMalley convinces her to help him write a book detailing Forrests scheme. Kerndon eavesdrops, then locks the arsenals door, sets the building ablaze, and shoots into it through an embrasure. Christine, fatally injured. urges OMalley to write his book. When an automobile rushes to the scene, Kerndon shoots at the passengers and is run down and killed; then they rescue OMalley. OMalley ultimately writes a book titled Christine Forrest: Her Life, which exposes the plot.
Keeper of the Flame (film)
1943