Kurt Sloane (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is the cornerman for his brother Eric Sloane (Dennis Alexio), the United States kickboxing world champion. After another successful title defense, Eric is enticed by the media to compete in Thailand, where kickboxing was started, to further establish his legacy. Eric and Kurt travel to Bangkok where they are matched against Tong Po (Michel Qissi), Thailands undefeated top fighter. Eric is supremely confident but Kurt has some apprehension about the upcoming fight, particularly after witnessing Tong Po kicking a concrete pillar in preparation for the fight. Kurt begs his brother not to go forward with the fight, but Eric dismisses any concerns. The first round is a one-sided affair in which Po manhandles Eric with his superior strength. In between rounds, Kurt once again begs Eric to forfeit the fight, but Eric refuses to give up and continues to be beaten badly in the second round. Kurt throws in the towel, but Tong Po kicks the towel out of the ring and continues his assault. He viciously strikes Eric in the back with his elbow, immobilizing him, then rips apart Erics world championship belt. Kurt retrieves the belt and leaves with his brother on a stretcher, but the fight officials simply leave them on the street and lock them out of the arena. Winston Taylor (Haskell V. Anderson III), a retired US Army special forces member agrees to help the pair and drives them to the hospital. As a result of Tong Pos brutal assault, Kurt is told that Eric is paralyzed from the waist down and will never be able to walk, let alone fight, again. Enraged, Kurt vows to avenge his brother. Taylor tells him about Xian Chow, a famous local trainer living in a remote area of Thailand. Although reluctant at first, Xian agrees to train Kurt in the art of Muay Thai ("Thai boxing"). Xian trains Kurt using many primitive methods, focusing on speed, agility, and the ability to protect himself through balance and timely breathing. While training, Kurt attempts to foil the operations of a group of Thai mobsters led by Freddy Li, who continuously steal money from the store of Xians niece, Mylee and threaten her. After Kurt makes short work of the thugs in a bar fight with Freddy Li looking on, Xian is able to convince Freddy Li to arrange a match between Kurt and Tong Po. It is determined that they will fight in the "ancient way", in which both fighters wrap their hands in hemp rope, which is then coated in resin and dipped in broken glass to make them deadly weapons. Freddy Li arranges to have the fight fixed, and borrows $1 million from the crime syndicates boss to bet on Tong Po. In the days leading up to the match, Mylee is beaten and raped by Tong Po, while Eric is kidnapped so Freddy Li can blackmail Kurt into losing the fight. To save his brothers life, Kurt is instructed by Freddy Li to go the distance with Tong Po before losing the match. He endures a torturous beating, but Xian and Taylor locate and rescue Eric before the fight concludes. Just before the beginning of the final round, Eric whistles from the crowd & gives Kurt the thumbs up whilst starting the crowd on a chant “Nuk Soo Kow” (white warrior). Knowing his brother is now safe, Kurt knows he can fight freely and proceeds to defeat Tong Po in vicious fashion, avenging his brother at last as Kurt and his friends celebrate a victorious win.
Kickboxer (film)
1989