Karla Dyson (Halle Berry), a diner waitress, lives a mostly perfect life as a single mother with her six-year-old son Frankie (Sage Correa) despite fighting a custody battle/court order with her estranged husband. One day, Karla takes Frankie to the local carnival. Upon entering, she temporarily leaves her son, in order to take an important phone call from the divorce lawyer she is working with. But when Karla comes back, she finds that her son is missing, leaving his toy voice recorder behind. Suddenly, Karla sees a woman dragging Frankie aggressively into a green Ford Mustang and, while the car is driving away, she clings at the side of the car trying to stop them, losing her phone in the process. Karla drives her car and chases the other one, with an ensuing lengthy chase. However, with her phone lost, she tries to get help from nearby motorists, but the attempt is thwarted by the kidnappers. Karla is then forced to take another route after the woman threatens to kill her son. Not giving up on rescuing her son, Karla chases the green car again. Karla hears the abductors voice from her sons toy voice recorder, revealing the abductors name Margo, who claims that Karla is looking for her son (despite all attempts to discourage her). Margo sees Karla talking over the phone. She then sees a police motorcycle several meters behind her. Hoping to stop the abductors car, Karla sways her car. The abductors car slams the police motorcycle into Karlas car, apparently knocking the police officer unconscious. Upon stop at grassy field, Karla confronts another abductor and demands he release her son, as long as she gives her money to the abductors. However, Margo gets out of the car and forces Karla to ride with her, who claims that they will get $10,000 ransom in exchange of her son upon reaching their destination. Margo orders Karla to follow her accomplices car. Upon reaching the tunnel, Margo attacks her, but Karla manages to subdue her and throws her out of the car. Karla puts on Margos shirt, fooling the second abductor temporarily as she exits the tunnel. Having realized that the driver is not Margo, Karla is forced not to follow the car after the second abductor threatens to drop Frankie out onto the dangerous highway. After Karla loses them for several minutes, she spots a road accident and finds the abductors car ahead of the traffic jam. One of the motorists saw the man and the boy emerge from the car and Karla drives after them. Karla stops at the police station to report the incident and sees posters of young children who had been missing for a decade. Fearing that her son will disappear for good, she continues the chase. Karla eventually finds the black Volvo used by the abductor and chases him until she finally runs out of fuel. Karla hitches a ride to follow the abductor but is suddenly hit by the abductors car, killing the driver. Upon recovering, she finds that her son isnt there in the car. The male abductor emerges from his car and begins to shoot at her with a sawed-off shotgun. He tries to attack her and she releases the brake, causing the car to reverse into the woods with the abductor clinging to it being struck to death by tree branches. Karla yells at the man demanding to know where her son is, but he dies before she can get the answer. Karla finds his identification card and learns his name, Terrence Vickey, and an address where her son might be. Karla arrives at the Vickey house and eventually locates Frankie in the barn with two other kidnapped girls. Before that, she calls 911 as she hides from Margo, who leaves the house in search for her husband Terrence. Karla successfully rescues Frankie, but when Margo — who has just realized that Terrence is dead — returns, she and her son run out of the barn before she can retrieve the two girls. Karla creates a diversion by sailing the skiff away while hiding underwater. Margo discovers them hiding, and Karla drags Margo down into the water and drowns her. Returning to the barn, she is approached by a man who is the Vickeys neighbor, who holds her at gunpoint. After listening to her and hearing the children in the barn attic, he then offers to help her by getting the two girls down. Realizing that he is the ringleader of the kidnappings since he knew that two girls were there without looking, she kills him with the shovel just before he draws his gun at her. As the police arrive, Karla rescues the two girls and the media reports praise her for saving the children from the abductors, and announcing that Karlas actions have led to police breaking up an international child abduction ring, with arrests being made in other parts of Louisiana, as well as Texas, Mississippi, and Florida. The media hails Karla as a hero.
Kidnap (2017 film)
2017