After years of pursuing drug kingpin Cullen Crisp, LAPD Detective John Kimble arrests him for murder; a witness saw Cullen murder an informant after getting information regarding the whereabouts of his former wife Rachel Myatt Crisp, who allegedly stole millions of dollars from Crisp before fleeing with his son, Cullen Jr. Partnered with former-teacher-turned-detective Phoebe OHara, Kimble goes undercover in Astoria, Oregon to find Rachel and offer her immunity in exchange for testifying against Crisp in court. To this end, OHara must act as a substitute teacher in Cullen Jr.s kindergarten class at Astoria Elementary School. OHara gets a terrible case of stomach flu, falling ill at the last moment, so Kimble takes her place as teacher. The suspicious school principal, Miss Schlowski, is convinced Kimble will not last long before quitting. Overwhelmed at first, Kimble adapts quickly to his new status, despite not having any formal teaching experience or training. With the use of his pet ferret as a class mascot, positive reinforcement, his police training as a model for structure in class, and his experience as a father, he becomes a much-admired and cherished figure to the children. Kimble begins to enjoy his undercover role. He deals with a case of child abuse, winning Schlowskis favor. In observation of his teaching style, she assures him that even though she does not agree with his methods, she can see that he is a good teacher. Kimble becomes fond of fellow teacher Joyce Palmieri, his student Dominics mother. Joyce is estranged from her husband and will not speak of him, and tells Dominic that he lives in France. Conversing with the gradually more-trusting Joyce, Kimble deduces that she is Rachel Crisp and that Dominic is Cullen Jr. In California, the case holding Crisp in jail is closed after the witness dies from using tainted cocaine provided by Crisps mother, Eleanor. Crisp is liberated from prison and immediately travels to Astoria with his mother to search for Dominic. When Kimble learns Cullen has been released, he confronts Joyce about her identity, saying he can protect her if she cooperates. Outraged that he misled her, she tells Kimble that Cullen lied about her stealing the money to convince drug dealers he knows to help him find her; the real reason was to find his son, as he was angry that his wife disappeared with him. Crisp starts a fire in the school library as a distraction to kidnap Dominic, but uses him as a hostage when Kimble arrives. Kimbles ferret bites Crisp on the neck, allowing Dominic to escape; Crisp shoots Kimble in the leg before Kimble fatally shoots him. Outside, Eleanor injures OHara with her car before going inside and discovering her dead son; she wounds Kimble in the shoulder, but an enraged OHara appears and vengefully attacks and beats her unconscious with a baseball bat. Eleanor is arrested and the unconscious Kimble is hospitalized with OHara, both making a full recovery. OHara returns to the police force in California while Kimble decides to retire, staying in Astoria to become a teacher for the kindergarten at the school. Joyce joins Kimble and kisses him while everyone cheers.
Kindergarten Cop
1990