In 1184 France, Balian, a blacksmith, is haunted by his wifes recent suicide, brought upon by depression from their childs stillborn death. A Crusader passing through the village introduces himself as Balians father, Baron Godfrey of Ibelin, and asks him to return with him to the Holy Land, but Balian declines. The town priest, Balians half-brother, wishes to claim Balians property. To achieve this, he reveals that he arranged for the Crusaders to come and take Balian away with them and ordered his wife beheaded before burial, which would prevent her from ascending to heaven, in an attempt to convince Balian to leave to the Holy Land. Instead, an enraged Balian kills him and flees the village. Balian joins his father, hoping to gain forgiveness and redemption for himself and his wife in Jerusalem. Soldiers sent by Godfreys brother, the lord of Balians village, arrive to arrest Balian. Godfrey refuses to surrender him, and in the ensuing attack, Godfrey is struck by an arrow that breaks off in his body, fatally wounding him. In Messina, Italy, Godfrey knights Balian and orders him to serve the King of Jerusalem and protect the helpless, then succumbs to his injuries. During Balians journey to Jerusalem his ship runs aground in a storm, leaving Balian the only survivor. After wandering the desert, Balian is confronted by a Muslim cavalier, who attacks him over Balians horse. Balian reluctantly slays the cavalier but spares the mans servant, whom he convinces to lead him to Jerusalem. Once there, he lets the man go free, and the man tells Balian that his deed will gain him fame and respect among the Saracens. After meeting Godfreys men and announcing himself as his fathers successor, Balian becomes acquainted with Jerusalems political arena: the leper King Baldwin IV; Tiberias, the Marshal of Jerusalem; the Kings sister, Princess Sibylla; and her second husband Guy de Lusignan, who supports the anti-Muslim activities of brutal factions like the Knights Templar. Defying against Baldwins rule, Guy intends to break the fragile truce with the sultan Saladin, make war on the Muslims, and take the throne of Jerusalem for himself. As the new Baron of Ibelin, Balian settles in his new land of Ibelin. Using his skills as a blacksmith, he earns the respect of his subjects by building an irrigation system. Sibylla travels to meet him, and the two become secret lovers. Guy and his ally, the cruel Raynald of Châtillon, attack a Saracen caravan, and Saladin advances on Raynalds castle Kerak in retaliation. At the request of the king, Balian defends the villagers, despite being overwhelmingly outnumbered. Captured, Balian encounters the servant he freed, whom he learns is actually Saladins chancellor Imad ad-Din. Imad ad-Din releases Balian in repayment of the earlier debt. Saladin arrives with his army to besiege Kerak, and Baldwin meets it with his. They negotiate a Muslim retreat, and Baldwin swears to punish Raynald. Baldwin forces Raynald to kiss his bare leprosy-cursed hand and then beats him, though the exertion of these events weakens him beyond recovery. Baldwin asks Balian to marry Sibylla and take control of the army, knowing they have affection for each other, but Balian refuses because it will require Guys execution. After Baldwin dies, Sibyllas six-year-old son from her previous marriage, Baldwin V, becomes King of Jerusalem. It quickly becomes apparent that he is also infected with leprosy. Grief-stricken and unwilling to condemn her son to a life behind a mask, Sibylla gives him poison. Sibylla succeeds her son and names Guy King of Jerusalem. Guy releases Raynald, asking him to give him a war, which Raynald does by murdering Saladins sister. Sending the heads of Saladins emissaries back to him, Guy declares war on the Saracens and sends assassins to kill Balian, though Balian survives the attempt. In 1187, Guy and the Templars march Jerusalems army into the desert for war, despite Balians advice to remain near water. Saladins army annihilates the exhausted Crusaders in the ensuing desert battle, executes Raynald, and marches on Jerusalem. Tiberias and his men leave for Cyprus, believing Jerusalem lost, but Balian remains to protect the people in the city, knighting the men of the city. After a siege that lasts three days, a frustrated Saladin parleys with Balian. When Balian reaffirms that he will destroy the city before surrendering it, Saladin agrees to allow the Christians to leave safely in exchange for Jerusalem—though he ponders if it would be better if there were nothing left to fight over. Balian is confronted by the disgraced Guy one final time, but defeats and spares him. In the marching column of citizens, Balian finds Sibylla, who has renounced her claim as Queen. After they return to France, English knights en route to retake Jerusalem ride through the town to enlist Balian, now the famed defender of Jerusalem. Balian tells the crusader that he is merely a blacksmith again, and they depart. Balian is joined by Sibylla, and they pass by the grave of Balians wife as they ride toward a new life together. An epilogue notes that "nearly a thousand years later, peace in the Holy Land still remains elusive."
Kingdom of Heaven (film)
2005