When the entire British royal family is killed in a freak accident outside Buckingham Palace, Sir Cedric Willingham leads a search for any surviving heirs to whom to pass the crown. After days of researching, his team finally locates a living heir in the form of an American named Ralph Jones. Shortly after being fired from his job as a lounge singer in Las Vegas, Ralph is informed by Cedrics assistant private secretary Duncan Phipps that his grandfather, the first Duke of Warren, had an affair with a hotel waitress while visiting the United States, resulting in Ralph having royal blood. Phipps provides further proof by showing Ralph the ring that was bequeathed by his grandmother. Ralph is flown to London, where Cedric gives him a crash course on royal etiquette. In only his second day as King, he goes to a strip club and meets Miranda Greene, an out-of-luck exotic dancer and aspiring fashion designer, and dares her to go out on a date with him if the British press proves his claim to the monarchy. Meanwhile, Lord Percival Graves is opposed to having an American on the throne and proposes to declare the reigning House of Wyndham at an end and replace it with the House of Stuart, of which he is patriarch. Prime Minister Geoffrey Hale states that Ralphs succession is legitimate unless he commits a grievous error. With this in mind, Graves bribes a cash-strapped Miranda to stir up controversy by having a public relationship with Ralph. Despite warnings by Cedric not to commit a mistake similar to that of King Edward VIII, Ralph sneaks out of the Palace to have a romantic date with Miranda at Hyde Park. The next day, Miranda returns the money to Graves, but he already has photographs of her affair with Ralph. In order to preserve Ralphs reputation, Miranda breaks up with him. Despite Ralphs reluctance to accept British culture and his ineptness in formal affairs, he makes a positive impression on King Mulambon of Zambezi during the latters state visit. The two monarchs share their concerns about the role of leadership they have assumed and the economic interests of their nations. Ralph accumulates a small but loyal following. Ralphs staff arrange for him to marry Princess Anna of Finland to continue the royal bloodline and guarantee jobs for the UK in Finlands newly discovered oil reserves in the Baltic Sea. On the night of the Finnish Royal Familys visit, Ralph is turned off by Princess Annas unusually deep voice and her desire to marry just for royalty. Miranda attends the royal ball as a set-up by Graves and photos of her affair with Ralph are given to King Gustav, which, along with Ralphs wild musical number, results in Finland turning down the UK in favor of Japan for the offshore equipment contract. Having failed to realize that the role of King comes with certain expectations, and that he cannot rely on his charm or blue-collar background, Ralph accepts a stern rebuke from Cedric and endeavors to set things right. Miranda confesses to Ralph her role in the scandal before he walks out on her. Ralph develops suspicions about his circumstances, and learns through Phipps that Cedric is another heir to the throne and had refused the role. Ralph addresses Parliament, apologizing for his recent actions and informing the country that he has worked out a deal with King Mulambon for Zambezi to purchase £200 million worth of British mining equipment and to open three car engine plants in Britain, ensuring jobs for Mirandas family and thousands of Britons. He then reveals that Graves has been sabotaging his succession to the throne and has him arrested for violating the Treason Act 1702. Finally, he announces that he will abdicate and reveals Cedric as his successor. After Cedric accepts his duty as King, Ralph is appointed as the Third Duke of Warren, with a lucrative annual salary and his own recording studio in the Palace. He also marries Miranda and raises a family with her while running his own band.
King Ralph
1991