A year after the events of the previous film, Eggsy Unwin has officially joined Kingsman, taken his late mentor Harry Harts title of Galahad and begun a relationship with Tilde, Crown Princess of Sweden. On his way home from the tailor shop, he is ambushed by Charlie Hesketh, a former Kingsman trainee who lost his arm and vocal cords during the Valentine incident, replacing them with cybernetics. Eggsy evades Charlie and his henchmen in a car chase across London, but Charlies severed cybernetic arm hacks into the Kingsman servers through the computer system of Eggsys car. Charlie passes on the information gained to Poppy Adams, the leader of the worlds largest drug cartel, the Golden Circle. Poppy uses the information to launch a volley of missiles that destroy the Kingsman headquarters and wipe out all of the agents in Britain, aside from Eggsy and Merlin, Kingsmans tech support. Eggsy and Merlin follow an emergency protocol which leads them to Statesman, an American private intelligence service posing as a Bourbon whiskey distillery in Kentucky. There, they discover that Harry survived his shooting thanks to Statesman technology, but is suffering from amnesia. They also learn about the Golden Circle from Statesman head Champagne and the two agencies agree to work together to bring it down. Statesman agent Tequila later develops a blue rash and shows signs of mania and is replaced by another agent, Whiskey, as Eggsys partner. Eggsy plants a tracking device on Charlies ex-girlfriend Clara Von Gluckfberg during a sexual encounter at Glastonbury Festival, but his revelation of the mission to Princess Tilde strains their relationship. Eggsy later manages to cure Harrys amnesia by threatening to shoot a Cairn Terrier puppy that resembles Harrys late dog, shortly before Poppy broadcasts a message telling the world about a toxin she has added to all her drugs, which causes users to develop symptoms like Tequilas before progressing to paralysis and ultimately death. She offers the antidote to the world if the President of the United States ends his countrys war on drugs and grants her cartel immunity from prosecution. The President decides to have everyone affected quarantined, intending to let them all die in order to put Poppy out of business. Eggsy, Harry and Whiskey track Clara to the Golden Circles antidote factory in Italy. Eggsy manages to steal an antidote sample, but it is broken by Whiskey during an ambush by the Golden Circles henchmen, leading Harry to suspect him of working against them. Harry shoots Whiskey in the head, but Eggsy, believing Harry to be delusional as a result of his recovery, saves him with the same technology that Statesman used to save Harry. Princess Tilde calls Eggsy in a state of mania, revealing that she has been affected by the blue rash, having taken drugs due to her stress over Eggsys infidelity. Eggsy, Harry and Merlin discover the location of Poppys hideout, "Poppy Land", in Cambodia and fly there to steal the laptop which can deploy the drones carrying the antidote all over the world. Upon their arrival at Poppy Land, Eggsy steps on a land mine, but Merlin sacrifices himself to save him and Harry. Eggsy and Harry storm through the lair; Eggsy kills Charlie, while Harry destroys Poppys robotic attack dogs with the help of Elton John, who had been kidnapped by Poppy during the events of the previous film. They secure the laptop and inject Poppy with a concentrated dose of her toxin and heroin. Poppy gives them the laptop password in exchange for the antidote, but dies of an overdose from the heroin. Whiskey interrupts them before they can deploy the drones, revealing that he wants all drug users to die after his pregnant wife was killed in a robbery committed by two methamphetamine users. Eggsy and Harry fight and kill Whiskey, then deploy the drones to release the antidote and save the affected victims throughout the world. In the aftermath, the President is impeached for conspiring to commit genocide on the drug victims and Statesman purchases a distillery in Scotland to help rebuild Kingsman. Statesman tech support specialist Ginger Ale is appointed to the position of Whiskey, Eggsy marries Princess Tilde and Tequila joins Kingsman, which acquires a new tailor shop in London.
Kingsman: The Golden Circle
2017