The cartoon starts with a canary named Cuckoo in his birdcage, watching the cat and the mouse chase each other. Sounds of breaking glass and other fighting are heard throughout. Thomas Cat can now be seen, attempting to smash Gerald Mouse with a broom, but instead repeatedly breaking lamps and glasses. Gerald "Jerry" hides in the one unbroken glass and runs away, but Thomas "Tom" picks up the glass and waits for Jerry to emerge from it. When he does, his heart starts pounding and extending out of his chest. Before Tom can club the mouse with the broken end of the broom handle, Cuckoo escapes from his cage by unlatching the base of the cage, which falls onto Tom, flattening his head with a cymbal noise. Tom pursues Jerry, chasing him into his mousehole, into which Toms face gets caught, elongating his nose. Tom then spots Cuckoo, chasing it into his cage. The cat leaps for him, but instead gets himself caught inside the cage, which he then seals with the base. He flies onto a table and then runs away as Tom pursues him, but instead Tom pokes himself through the center of the table and swallows Cuckoo. Fortunately for him, the everpresent "cuckoo...cuckoo...cuckoo" gag allows the bird to escape. Tom runs after Cuckoo, and then rises into the air, beating his deltoids to stay afloat in the same matter as Cuckoo. Tom grins at Cuckoo until he runs into the wall and three potted plants hit him on the head. The cat recovers and sees Cuckoo pacing away under a fourth pot. He covers the pot and pokes his eye through the hole, and Cuckoos heart extends out in the same manner as Jerrys. As Tom reaches under the pot to grab Cuckoo, Jerry inserts Toms tail into the windowsill and snaps the cord. Tom untangles himself and storms after the mouse, and the canary dives down and gives him a lift. They enter the hole, and Toms nose is once again elongated, but this time, he has swallowed the duo. The mouse and Cuckoo squeeze out and take sanctuary in the mousehole, where the two introduce each other with and handshake and became friends. Jerry allows Cuckoo to fly back to his birdcage, but Tom appears from behind a sofa, and Cuckoo flies into Toms open mouth. Jerry then realizes its a trap, retrieves Cuckoo by using a hammer to break Toms teeth, freeing Cuckoo from his prison. Cuckoo kicks out Toms last tooth and flies off. As Tom snatches Jerry in his hand, Cuckoo pulls up a floorboard and traps Toms tail under it. In pain, Tom leaps up, and smacks his head on the cage, causing it to fall down on his head and onto the floor. As Tom chases Jerry around the corner, the canary pulls him behind a curtain. Jerry and Cuckoo trick Tom by dressing as two Indians and setting out from the curtain. Jerry waves and mutters "Hau." as Cuckoo innocently smiles and waves. Tom doesnt catch it for a while, but soon sees the trick and chases after the two. Cuckoo flies back into the small white pack strapped to Jerry. The mouse turns around slowly in fear, and they run off. The canary sticks his tongue out at Tom, only to bump his head on a chair. Tom chases Cuckoo, and soon changes direction and goes after the mouse. Jerry and then Tom dive under a polar bear skin and head, and when Tom pops out of the mouth, Cuckoo (on top of it) stomps on the head. Tom shrieks in pain and rolls his tongue out. Tom dives for Cuckoo, but stops in midair when Cuckoo picks up a gun. Tom backs up in dread (Then Cuckoo drops the gun; Tom, too frightened to take advantage, hands it back) until he is cornered next to the fireplace. Seeing a opportunity, Jerry drops a light bulb, making a noise similar to a shot. Tom, oblivious, believes he was actually shot, utters a dramatic grunt of pain, and sees from the mirror his "grave." Tom flips a coin as he "dies" on the floor. The mouse and Cuckoo celebrate, shaking hands with each other, plus a revived Tom. Noticing the cat, they decide to distract him by repeatedly shaking each others hands and both of Toms hands. Tom gets swept up in the moment of goodwill, and Jerry and the canary make Toms hands shake one another and then sneak away. Tom soon realizes his hands are shaking each other and chases both, but the canary escapes, while Jerry runs into a chair. Tom catches Jerry, ties him to train tracks, then climbs on a toy train and starts it up. Tom tries to use the train to (Tom needs to pick either one of his possibilities to do something to Jerry) run him over/plow him off the house/crash into him. Terrified, Cuckoo grabs a bag with a bowling ball inside and carries it across the room. Tom, on top of the train, is approaching Jerry very fast (accompanied with Rossinis Barber of Seville Overture), who is shocked as he sees the train about to crash into him, and begins to say his prayers. The train starts accelerating, but Cuckoo is flying faster than the train, and when Cuckoo cannot hold the bowling ball any longer, the bags zipper opens, the ball falls out and breaks a hole through the tracks and into the basement, which the train plunges into, landing and crashing in the basement below. The fate of the train remains unknown. The cartoon ends with Jerry and Cuckoo whistling "My Blue Heaven."
Kitty Foiled
1948