In 1944, in the midst of World War II, two fighter pilots – American pilot Hank Marlow and Japanese pilot Gunpei Ikari – parachute onto an island in the South Pacific after a dogfight and engage in close combat, but the fight is interrupted by a giant ape. Twenty-nine years later, in 1973, U.S. government agent Bill Randa hires former British Special Air Service Captain James Conrad, a skilled tracker, to guide an expedition to map out a recently discovered island known as Skull Island. Their military escort is the Sky Devils, a U.S. Army helicopter squadron newly returned from the Vietnam War and led by Lieutenant Colonel Preston Packard and his subordinates, Major Jack Chapman and Captain Earl Cole. The group is joined by pacifist photojournalist Mason Weaver, who believes the expedition is a secret military operation. Upon arrival at Skull Island, Packards men begin dropping explosives, developed by seismologist Houston Brooks, to map out the island. However, the air unit is attacked by the same giant ape from 1944, who kills a number of military personnel and scatters the survivors across the island. Packard regroups with some of the scattered survivors, including Randa, Cole, his door gunner Reles, pilot Glenn Mills, and Landsat employee Steve Woodward. After being confronted by Packard, Randa reveals his affiliation to the secret government organization Monarch, and its plan to use the expedition to prove the existence of monsters and determine their threat to humanity. Packards group begins making their way to Chapman, whose helicopter crash-landed elsewhere. Meanwhile, the other group of survivors, consisting of Conrad, Weaver, Brooks, biologist San Lin, soldier Reg Slivko, and Landsat employee Victor Nieves, try to get to a rendezvous point to meet a resupply team arriving in three days time. All of the survivors have various encounters with the islands creatures. Conrads group eventually encounter the local Iwi natives and an older Marlow. Marlow reveals that the ape is Kong, the islands guardian, worshiped as a god by the natives for protecting them from many predators, including two-legged, lizard-like monsters dubbed "Skullcrawlers". He informs them that Kong attacked and destroyed the air unit because their seismology explosives brought the subterranean Skullcrawlers to the surface; the Skullcrawlers are responsible for killing Kongs ancestors, leaving him as the last of his kind. Marlow also tells them that he and Ikari became friends, but Ikari was killed by a Skullcrawler some time ago. He also says that they are fortunate that they didnt awaken "the Big One", the largest of the Skullcrawlers. Chapman is ambushed and eaten by a Skullcrawler, while Conrads group helps Marlow complete a boat built from parts scavenged from Marlow and Ikaris downed planes. They ride down the river, and manage to secure communication with Packards group, but the boat is attacked by pterosaur-like creatures that kill Nieves. They regroup with Packard, who insists on searching for Chapman, though his true objective is to find and kill Kong, who he perceives as an enemy due to killing his men. Marlow leads the two groups to a mass grave littered with the bones of Kongs kin. There, the same Skullcrawler that killed Chapman attacks the group, killing Randa and many soldiers before dying in a flammable gas explosion triggered by Weaver. Learning about Chapmans death, a vengeful Packard blames Kong for the deaths of his men and becomes even more determined to kill him. The group parts ways, with Packards group laying a trap for Kong at a nearby lake, while the non-military personnel head back to the boat. While scouting the path ahead, Conrad and Weaver encounter Kong up close and, seeing his true benevolent nature, they resolve to save him. As Conrad and Weaver encounter Kong, Packards group uses the remaining seismic explosives to lure him in. Kong charges to the lake, where they incapacitate him with ignited napalm, though Woodward is killed. Conrad, Weaver, and Marlow arrive and persuade the other soldiers to spare Kong, but Packard refuses to stand down. A massive Skullcrawler,the Big One, emerges from the lake and Packard is crushed to death by a recovering Kong. The Skullcrawler overpowers Kong and chases the humans. Cole is killed in a failed suicide bomb attempt to kill it. Kong returns to rescue the others and battle the beast, and is aided by the survivors. Weaver is knocked into the marsh during the fight, but Kong saves her from drowning. Though seemingly dead, the Skullcrawler then tries to kill Kong and eat Weaver, but Kong successfully kills it by tearing out its tongue and eviscerating it, and allows the survivors to leave the island. During the credits, Marlow is shown returning home, reuniting with his wife, meeting his son for the first time, and watching a Chicago Cubs game on television. In a post-credits scene, Conrad and Weaver are detained by Monarch. They are informed by Brooks and San that Skull Island is just the beginning and that Kong is not the only monster king to roam the world. As proof, they are shown archive footage of cave paintings depicting the monsters Godzilla, Rodan, Mothra, and King Ghidorah.
Kong: Skull Island
2017