A huge, blinking flying saucer from deep space emits a glowing object, which races to Earth. It intercepts a man whos driving his car down an isolated road. The object takes over the mans body and directs it to LabCentral, a U.S. research facility thats been tracking the saucer, thinking it was an asteroid. The mans possessed body forces its way into the lab and the entity inside takes control of the chief scientist, who directs three nuclear missiles to be fired at the saucer. Everyone is shocked when the explosion fails to destroy the object. The saucer crashes into the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Mexico. Impatient with the delay in getting a formal expedition to the crash scene, two of the labs scientists (one with his photographer girlfriend in tow) head down to Mexico. After their arrival, they see the saucer appear on the oceans surface. Terrified, they flee back to their lodging for the rest of the night. The next morning, both scientists and the girlfriend see a large, stories-tall machine that has appeared on the beach. Its four-legged body features two mobile antennae that resemble the terminals of a capacitor. They use a small helicopter to land atop the strange machine, glimpsing its inner workings before being forced to leave the huge machine Under the direction of the possessed lab scientist, who now has lists of power stations and atom-bomb arsenals around the world, the large machine, which has since been named Kronos, methodically attacks power plants in Mexico, draining their energy entirely. In doing so Kronos grows larger with every energy-absorption episode, consuming more and more power as it moves, unhindered, from one power source to the next. Four Mexican Air Force fighter planes attack Kronos, but the growing alien machine easily destroys them and continues on its energy-draining rampage. In a lucid, unpossessed moment, the scientist tells his returned colleagues that Kronos is an energy accumulator, sent by an alien race that has exhausted its own natural resources; they have sent their giant machine to drain all the Earths available power and then return it to their dying world. The United States Air Force sends a B-47 bomber to drop an atomic bomb, but one of the scientists warns the Pentagon that an atomic explosion will simply supply Kronos with massive amounts of energy. The Pentagon attempts to abort the bombing mission, but Kronos causes the jet to crash into it, absorbing the bombs nuclear blast. The alien machine, now grown to an immense size, appears unstoppable, harvesting all forms of energy at will. As Kronos draws near Los Angeles, scientists devise an ingenious plan that reverses the monster machines polarity, forcing it to feed upon itself, until being obliterated by a gigantic implosion. But the question remains: Will mankind suffer another onslaught by the desperate aliens?
Kronos (film)
1957