George Kuffs, an irresponsible 21-year-old high school dropout from San Francisco, has walked out on his pregnant girlfriend Maya. Having lost his job and with no other prospects, George visits his brother, Brad, to ask for money. Brad serves as an officer in the San Francisco Patrol Special Police, a civilian auxiliary police unit that has potential officers assign themselves specific areas and work on a for-hire basis. Brad, unwilling to loan George any money, suggests George join him as a Patrol Special and work under him. Before George can decide on accepting the offer, a man named Kane shoots Brad in a church. George tries to help Brad as Kane nonchalantly walks away from the scene, and Brad is rushed to the hospital. George is brought in for a lineup where he identifies Kane as the shooter, but the police are forced to release him because George did not actually see Kane fire the gun. Shortly after, George is told by Captain Morino, a friend of Brads, that Brad died from his injuries and that George has been bequeathed Brads district. Local businessman Sam Jones tries to purchase the district so he can control it, but George decides to keep it and train to be a police officer. Seen as unskilled and rude, George draws the mocking of his fellow Patrol Specials and the ire of Officer Ted Bukowsky -a police liaison who has been assigned to work with the Patrol Specials as punishment for having an affair with the police chiefs wife. George spikes Teds coffee with sleeping pills while on duty, resulting in Ted getting suspended. After George is shot and wounded by a suicidal writer, his life begins to improve. He cracks a criminal enterprise run out of a Chinese dry cleaner by Jones, gaining respect and admiration from his fellow officers, and also reconnects with Maya. George gets justice for his brothers murder by killing Kane (in self-defense) during a failed ambush in Georges apartment. His joy is short lived, however; Jones gives Georges high school transcript to the Patrol Specials -proving George is ineligible to be a police officer because he never graduated- and declares he will take control of the district. George doesnt stop tracking Jones and seeks out the still-suspended Ted for help. They wind up in a massive rooftop shootout with Jones goons and are eventually joined by the rest of the police unit. George corners Jones in the lowest level of a parking garage and fatally shoots him in self-defense. George marries Maya and becomes the proud father of a baby girl named Sarah. At Mayas suggestion, he took the high school equivalency exam and passed, allowing him to continue working as an officer. He also took out a loan to expand his brothers district.
Kuffs
1992