In the spirit realm, Oogway fights against an adversary named Kai, who has defeated other kung fu masters in the realm and taken their chi. Oogway willingly gives in and also has his chi stolen, but not before warning Kai that the Dragon Warrior, Po, will stop him. Kai takes this as a challenge to steal the Dragon Warriors chi and returns to the mortal realm. Meanwhile, Master Shifu announces his retirement from teaching and passes the role of teacher to Po. An initially excited Po realizes that teaching kung fu is not as easy as he thought, and the Furious Five are injured as a result. Po is demoralized because of his failure, but Shifu advises Po that instead of trying to be a teacher, he should try to be himself. Po returns home where he meets a panda, Li Shan, whom they both realize is his long-lost biological father. They quickly bond with each other, much to the jealousy of Pos adoptive father, Mr. Ping. After introducing Li to Shifu and his friends, Po and the Five defend the Valley of Peace from jade zombies that Kai has created from the chi of past kung fu masters. The team learns through research that in order to defeat Kai, Po must learn to master the use of chi himself, an ability utilized by ancient pandas. Li offers to teach him by taking him to his secret panda village home. Po and Li travel to the village while Shifu and the Furious Five stay behind to deal with Kai; Mr. Ping follows the pandas, worried that he will lose Pos affections to Li. Although Po is eager to learn chi, Li tells him he must first learn the relaxed life of a panda in the village. Kai takes the chi of nearly every kung fu master in China, including Shifu and the Furious Five except Tigress, who warns the pandas of Kais intention to steal their chi. Afraid, Li and the pandas prepare to run away. When Po demands that Li teach him how to use chi, Li confesses that he does not know how, and that he lied out of fear of losing his son again. Po is hurt over his fathers misdirection and isolates himself to train vigorously to fight Kai; Mr. Ping, who realizes Po has become happier with Li being a part of his life, encourages Li and the other pandas to stay and ask Po to train them so they can fight back. Tigress confronts Po and tells him that he has no other way of defeating Kai. Po then laments that he will never win when Li, Mr. Ping and all the Pandas come and ask Po to train them to be his army. Realizing what had previously made him fail as a teacher, Po agrees and teaches them using their everyday activities as their assets. Kai arrives and sends his jade zombie minions to capture Po, who sends the pandas, Ping, and Tigress upon them, distracting Kai. The plan works in holding off the army, but when Po tries to use his signature Wuxi Finger Hold on Kai to send him back to the spirit realm, Kai reveals that it can only work on mortals, not a spirit warrior like himself. Kai gains the upper hand in their fight, but Po uses the Wuxi Finger Hold again on himself while gripping Kai, transporting them both to the spirit realm. They fight again, with Kai regaining the advantage to subdue Po. Using what they learned from Po, Li, Tigress, Mr. Ping, and the pandas are able to use their chi to revive and empower him. Po harnesses their chi to create a giant dragon figure which he uses to overload Kai, causing him to explode, defeating him and restoring all of the fallen masters to normal. In an ethereal golden pond, Oogway appears to Po and informs him that his journey as the Dragon Warrior has come full circle, declaring Po to be his true successor. By choice, Po wields a mystic jade yin-yang staff bestowed by Oogway to return to the mortal world. He and his extended family all return to the valley, where they continue practicing kung fu and their chi.
Kung Fu Panda 3
2016