Richard Steven Valenzuela (Phillips) is a normal teenage boy who becomes a rock n roll superstar under the stage name Ritchie Valens. He meets and falls in love with fellow high school student Donna Ludwig (von Zerneck), for whom he wrote a song that became a number two hit ("Donna"). However, Donnas father is shown as having issues with his daughter dating a Mexican-American, which causes friction between Ritchie and Donna. The movie also has several subplots, such as his relationship with his mother Connie Valenzuela (DeSoto) and half-brother Bob Morales (Esai Morales), and the jealousy Bob felt toward Ritchies success. In one scene, Bob wins an important art contest that helps promising cartoonists, only to throw away his prize because, in his mind, his mother does not seem to care enough. Bob resorts to drinking heavily and, at one point, leads him to yelling in a drunken rage in front of his mothers door, "I want to see my daughter!" in reference to the child he sired with Ritchies first girlfriend Rosie (Peña). However, when they get an opportunity, Ritchie and Bob sneak out for a good time. On one occasion, they take a road trip to Tijuana, visiting one of the local clubs where Ritchie discovers the song that would eventually become his signature song, "La Bamba". The film also focuses on Ritchies aviophobia (fear of flying), triggered by a recurring dream he has as a result of a midair collision between two planes that actually occurred directly over Ritchies school, in which Ritchies best friend was crushed to death by one of the fallen aircraft (Ritchie was absent from school that day to attend his grandfathers funeral). At first, Ritchie manages to avoid flying to his concerts and appearances; but he must eventually conquer his fear when invited to perform his song "Donna" on American Bandstand. Ritchies record producer and manager, Bob Keane (Pantoliano), helps him by giving him a little vodka to calm his nerves during the flight to Philadelphia for the Bandstand appearance. As Ritchie becomes more famous, his responsibilities change, and eventually he must join the ill-fated Winter Dance Party tour with Buddy Holly (Marshall Crenshaw) and "The Big Bopper" (Stephen Lee) after "La Bamba" and "Donna" reach the top of the Billboard charts. Valens, Holly, and Bopper take off in an airplane during a snowstorm for their fateful flight on February 3, 1959 (the night that came to be known as "The Day the Music Died"). Before the ill-fated flight, Ritchie makes a call to his brother, wherein they patch up their differences. He even invites Bob to fly out to Chicago to join the tour for family support. The next day, as Bob is fixing his mothers car, he hears the news bulletin on the radio that his brothers plane crashed without any survivors. Bob darts out of his driveway in an attempt to get to his mother before she hears the bad news through the radio. Unfortunately, by the time he gets there, she stands immobile. The news of Ritchies death hits the Valenzuela family, Bob Keane, and Donna very hard. In the final scene, the cars to Ritchies funeral are shown driving slowly into San Fernando Mission Cemetery and Bob is then seen walking across a bridge and screaming out Ritchies name, remembering all the good times they had together (in flashback), accompanied by the Santo & Johnny instrumental "Sleep Walk." Lou Diamond Phillips (as Valens) is then shown in an earlier scene performing Valens version of "La Bamba" accompanied by the closing credits. In the movie David Hidalgo of Los Lobos provided the singing voice.
La Bamba (film)
1987