In a flashback, horror author Franklin "Frankie" Scarlatti recounts a story whilst traveling back to his hometown - Willowpoint Falls. Its Halloween 1962, and Frankie (Lukas Haas) has been locked in the schools cloakroom after the last bell has rung for the day by the school pranksters Donald (Jared Rushton) and Louie (Gregory Levinson). Trapped well after dark, he witnesses the ghostly scene of a brutal attack on a red-haired little girl. Suddenly in the present day, someone enters the cloakroom. They keenly survey the room then focus their attention on the air duct located in the floor. While they work to unscrew the vent cover, Frankie shuffles away from a brown rat and is discovered. He quickly pulls his Halloween mask over his face as the stranger walks toward him menacingly asking "Who are you?". Before Frankie can give a coherent answer, he is snatched off the ledge and choked. He loses consciousness and again sees the girl however, this time, she asks for his help to find her mother. Without warning, Frankie is revived by his father Angelo (Alex Rocco) and rushed to the hospital. The police arrest the black janitor, Harold "Willy" Williams (Henry Harris), believing him to be Frankies attacker. As Frankie recovers at home, Frankies brother Geno (Jason Presson) brings him a newspaper article about the attack. As background to Frankies attack, the newspaper reports the mysterious and unsolved deaths of eleven other children - all apparently at the hands of a child serial killer. By Genos reaction, this is a well-known but suppressed series of crimes that the community is well aware of. The janitor is charged with Frankies attack, as well as the homicides of the other children. Startled, Frankie recognizes the picture of the red-haired girl by the photo printed in the newspaper - Melissa Ann Montgomery (Joelle Jacobi), the very first victim. Melissas ghost visits Frankie, and the two form a tenuous friendship. Striving to help her, he returns to the cloakroom to investigate. Remembering that his attacker began unscrewing the grating over the air vent prior to the attack, he removes the cover and finds several dust-laden objects: a few toys, a hair clip, and a high school class ring. Frankie pockets the hair clip and ring then leaves. Later, Frankie overhears the chief of police talking to his father (also a policeman), who reveals that not only is the case against the janitor crumbling but that the cloakroom is also the scene of Melissas murder. After considering this new information, Frankie confides in Phil (Len Cariou), a family friend, that the class ring likely belongs to the killer and that he thinks the killer returned to the cloakroom to retrieve it as the air system was due to be replaced soon. Unbeknownst to Frankie, the ring had accidentally fallen out of his pocket earlier in his bedroom. His brother Geno found the ring and thinking it might hold some value, tucked it away for safekeeping. Later, Donald and Louie convince Frankie to go out with them to the nearby cliffs. They visit a cliffside cottage, and from his dreams, Frankie realizes this is where Melissa lived. Entering a bedroom, Frankie surmises that it was Melissas bedroom. He takes the hair clip (which he has been carrying with him all this time) and replaces it alongside its twin on Melissas dresser. Minutes later, the boys encounter a ghostly lady dressed in white. They take off running and Frankie collides into Geno within the surrounding forest. Frankie tries to explain the link between Melissa, the attacker and the lady in white to his brother but is unsuccessful. One evening, Melissa appears to both Geno and Frankie. The town clock begins to chime and Frankie realizes that her death re-enactment is about to commence. The boys follow her ghost to the school then wait. Shortly thereafter, her lifeless body is seen descending the stairs as though carried by someone invisible. Geno steps on a thorn, and Frankie follows the body across the schoolyard and out into the forest. He then watches in horror as the body approaches the cliffs. At the last minute, she awakes and begins screaming for her mother. Her body is raised into the air and then thrown mercilessly over the edge. Her screams are abruptly cut off as the waves crash at the base of the cliff. Suddenly, a pale woman dressed in white with long streaming blonde hair steps out of the front door of the cottage calling Melissas name. She calls desperately until she reaches the edge of the cliff and looks down. Upon seeing Melissas lifeless body on the rocks below, she flings herself off the cliffs in agony. The ghostly scene ends and the brothers head home. Finally, Frankie understands the source of Melissas anguish. He vows to help find her mother and bring the killer to justice. Willy finally has his hearing, and the grand jury fails to indict him due to insufficient evidence. Outside the courthouse, the distraught mother of one the murdered children approaches Willy to apologize. Previously, shed angrily accused him of murdering her son. Seated in the squad car, Willy graciously accepts her apology as his wife looks on lovingly from the opposite window. The mother pulls out a small revolver and fires one shot through Willys temple before anyone can react. Willy falls forward dead as his wife looks on in shock. Willys wife then stands up, turns around and walks away as bedlam breaks out. Angelo rushes forward and grabs her by the shoulder only to discover that shes also been shot through the chest by the same bullet that killed her husband. As shes dragged away from the police car and disarmed, the distraught mother cries out the name of her long-dead child. Meanwhile, back at the Scarlatti residence, Geno begins to research the class ring he found in his bedroom. Using one of his fathers old yearbooks and class ring, he realizes that his father and the killer are in the same class. Angelos yearbook reveals that the initials on the ring, "MPT", belong to Michael P. Terragrossa. Geno quickly deduces that the "P" stands for Phillip — as in their family friend Phil — and he rushes to tell his father. Frankie happens to be with Phil at that very same moment - having archery practice. Frankie absentmindedly begins to hum Melissas favorite tune: "Did You Ever See a Dream Walking?". Simultaneously, Phil whistles exactly the same tune as he gathers their equipment to load into the station wagon (which Frankie is sitting inside of). Startled, Frankie looks up as he makes the connection. He stares at Phil with an expression of horror mixed with shock. Phil realizes that Frankie has figured everything out and immediately attacks him. Frankie narrowly escapes and runs into the forest. Hes easily disoriented as nightfall approaches and finds himself on the cliffs. Phil catches him and confesses to all of the murders. Half sobbing half screaming, he claims that if he had known it was Frankie in the cloakroom, he would not have attacked him. He then begins to strangle Frankie, demanding he gives him the ring. Suddenly, Phil is struck from behind and they both collapse to the ground. Regaining consciousness, Frankie finds himself lying on Melissas bed within the cottage, illuminated by burning candles. Lying in her bed, he hears the piano being played by Amanda Harper (Katherine Helmond). Frankie learns that she was the lady in white he earlier saw with Donald and Louie and the one who saved him from Phil. Amanda reveals that she is Melissas aunt and has been living in the cottage since the deaths of her sister and niece (her last living relatives). She also confesses that she attempted suicide due to misery, but was stopped. She knows both her sister and nieces spirits are unsettled but hasnt found a way to unite them in the afterlife. Without warning, Phil attacks and kills Amanda, setting the cottage ablaze in the struggle. After pummeling Amanda to death, Phil pulls Frankie from the burning cottage and attempts to throw him over the cliff. The Lady in White (Melissas mother) suddenly appears and frightens Phil, causing him to tumble over the cliffs edge. Frankie is released unharmed. Melissa (presumably drawn to the site by Frankie) emerges from the burning cottage and the two ghosts happily reunite, ascending into the sky in a cascade of light. As Frankie crawls away from the ledge, Phil grabs his ankle. Angelo, Geno, and the police arrive and save Frankie. Angelo also tries to save Phil, but wracked with guilt and shame, Phil lets go and plummets to his death. With Phil gone, Frankie along with everyone watches the cottage burn to the ground as it begins to snow.
Lady in White
1988