Tired of the low pay of his profession, hard-boiled Los Angeles private detective Phillip Marlowe (Robert Montgomery) submits a murder story to Kingsby Publications. He is invited to the publishers’ offices to discuss his work but soon realizes it is merely a ploy. A few days before Christmas, publishing executive Adrienne Fromsett (Audrey Totter) hires him to locate the wife of her boss, Derace Kingsby (Leon Ames). One month earlier, Kingsby’s wife, Chrystal, had sent her husband a telegram saying she was heading to Mexico to divorce him and marry a man named Chris Lavery. But, according to Fromsett, Lavery says he hasnt seen Chrystal for two months; shes missing, and the telegram appears to be a fake. It becomes obvious to Marlowe that Fromsett wants her boss for herself (for his money, as she later admits). Marlowe goes to see Lavery (Dick Simmons), who claims to be unaware of any trip to Mexico. A slip of the tongue by Lavery occurs, saying that Mrs. Kingsby WAS a beautiful woman before revising it to an "is." Lavery sucker-punches the detective. Marlowe wakes up in jail, where he is questioned by Captain Kane (Tom Tully) and a belligerent Lieutenant DeGarmot (Lloyd Nolan). Marlowe refuses to divulge anything about his case, so Kane warns him not to cause trouble and releases him. Marlowe learns that a womans body has been recovered from a lake owned by Kingsby and that Kingsbys caretaker was charged with the murder of his wife Muriel. Fromsett suspects that Chrystal is the real killer, as she and Muriel hated each other. Little Fawn Lake was also where Chrystal was last seen. Marlowe learns that Muriel was an alias for a woman named Mildred Havelend and that she was hiding from a tough cop, whose description fits DeGarmot. Marlowe goes to call on Lavery again. Inside the unlocked house, he instead encounters Laverys landlady, Mrs. Falbrook, holding a gun she claims to have just found. Upstairs, he finds Lavery dead in the shower, shot several times. He also finds a handkerchief with the monogram "A F". Before calling the police, Marlowe goes to the publishing house to confront Fromsett, interrupting a Christmas party there. In private, she denies killing Lavery. Kingsby, learning that Fromsett had hired Marlowe to find Chrystal, tells her theirs will be strictly a business relationship from now on. A furious Fromsett fires the private eye. Marlowe immediately gets another job; Kingsby hires him to find his wife. Marlowe proceeds to inform the police of Laverys death. At the scene, he suggests that Muriel was hiding from DeGarmot. The two men scuffle. Kane separates them and takes Marlowe into custody, releasing him only after a surge of Christmas spirit. Marlowe obtains more information on Muriel from a newspaper contact. It turns out that Muriel had been a suspect in the suspicious death of her previous employers wife. The investigating detective, DeGarmot, ruled that death a suicide; the victims parents strongly disagreed. Marlowe finds the parents have been intimidated into keeping silent. His car is then run off the road by DeGarmot. Regaining consciousness after the crash, Marlowe manages to get to a telephone and call Fromsett for help. She takes him back to her apartment, where she claims that she has fallen in love with him. They spend Christmas Day together while he recovers from his injuries. Kingsby receives a telegram from his wife, asking for money. Marlowe agrees to drop it off, as Kingsby is being followed by police detectives. Placing his life in Fromsetts hands, Marlowe instructs her to have the police follow him after ten minutes, following a trail of rice he will leave behind. The woman Marlowe meets (Jayne Meadows), the one who asked for money from Kingsby, turns out to be Mildred Havelend, alias Mrs. Falbrook, alias Muriel. She is the one who killed Chrystal (the "lady in the lake"), in addition to her former employers wife and Lavery. DeGarmot was in love with Havelend and helped her cover up the first murder. Then she fled from him and married Kingsbys caretaker, Mr. Chess. Haveland pulls a gun on Marlowe in her apartment. DeGarmot tracks them down, having overheard Fromsett speaking to Captain Kane and following Marlowes trail of rice. DeGarmot plans to kill them both with Havelends gun and stage it to look like she and Marlowe shot each other. DeGarmot then shoots a pleading Mildred several times. Captain Kane gets there just in time to gun down his own crooked cop. Marlowe and Fromsett decide to leave for New York City to start a life together.
Lady in the Lake
1947