Christine "Lady Bird" McPherson is a senior student at a Catholic high school in Sacramento in 2002. She longs to attend an Ivy League college in "a city with culture." Her family is struggling financially, and her mother tells her that Lady Bird is ungrateful for what she has. Lady Bird and her best friend Julie join their school theater program, where Lady Bird meets Danny ONeill. They develop a romantic relationship, and, to her mothers disappointment, Lady Bird joins Dannys wealthy family for Thanksgiving dinner. Their relationship ends when Lady Bird discovers Danny kissing a boy in a bathroom stall. At the behest of her mother, Lady Bird takes a job at a coffee shop, where she meets Kyle, a young musician she recognized from a show there last semester. He and Lady Bird begin a romantic relationship. After Jenna, one of the popular girls at the school, is reprimanded by Sister Sarah, a teacher, for wearing a short skirt, Lady Bird suggests the two bond by vandalizing the nuns car. Lady Bird gives Dannys grandmothers home as her address to appear wealthy. As Lady Bird pushes closer to Kyle and Jenna she deserts Julie. Lady Bird drops out of the theater program. At the coffee shop, she consoles Danny after he expresses his struggle to come out, and befriends him again. After Kyle tells her he is a virgin, she loses her virginity to him, but he later denies saying this, leaving her unfulfilled and eventually leading to their breakup. Jenna surprises Lady Bird by looking for her at the address of Dannys grandmother, which Lady Bird had told her was her house. Lady Bird must then admit that she lied about where she lives. Jenna agrees to forgive her because of Kyle but makes it clear that they are no longer friends. Lady Bird discovers that her father has lost his job and has been battling depression for most of his life. Lady Bird begins applying to East Coast colleges despite her mothers insistence that the family cannot afford it. She gets accepted into University of California, Davis and is upset because it is too close to home. She is later elated to discover that she has been placed on the wait list for a New York college but does not share the news with her mother, fearing her response. She sets out for her high school prom with Kyle, Jenna, and Jenna’s boyfriend, but the four decide to go to a party instead. Lady Bird changes her mind during the car ride and asks them to drop her off at Julies apartment, where the two rekindle their friendship and go to prom together. After Lady Birds graduation, Danny accidentally reveals to Lady Birds mother that she has been waitlisted, and her mom stops talking to her for the rest of the summer. On her eighteenth birthday, her father shares a cupcake with her. To celebrate reaching legal age, Lady Bird buys a pack of cigarettes, a scratch-off ticket, and an issue of Playgirl. She passes her driving test and redecorates her bedroom. Lady Bird learns she has been accepted by a college in New York City, and can afford the tuition with financial aid and her fathers help. Her parents take her to the airport but her mother refuses to go inside to say good-bye; she has a change of heart and drives back, but Lady Bird has already left. In New York City, Lady Bird finds thoughtful letters written by her mother and salvaged by her father, and begins using her birth name again. She is hospitalized after drinking heavily at a party. After leaving the hospital, she attends Mass in a Catholic church, then calls home and leaves an apologetic voicemail message for her mother.
Lady Bird (film)
2017