An interracial newlywed couple, Chris and Lisa Mattson (Patrick Wilson and Kerry Washington) are moving into their first home. Chris’s first exchanges with their neighbor, widowed and longtime LAPD detective Abel Turner (Samuel L. Jackson), have somewhat hostile undertones, with Abel making comments about Chris’ smoking (which Abel later exposes to Lisa) and listening to hip hop music, and making remarks about his ethnicity in his interracial relationship to Lisa. The following night, Chris and Lisa have sex in their swimming pool. Unknown to them, Abels children, Marcus and Celia, watch them. Abel arrives home and witnesses the spectacle. Angry, he re-positions his home security floodlights to shine into Chris and Lisas window, keeping them awake. Abel begins to insinuate to Chris that he disapproves of his interracial marriage and that he wants them to move out of their new neighborhood. One evening, Chris and Lisa hear noises downstairs and find the tires on Chris car slashed. Suspecting Abel, they call the police, who are unable to do anything because of Abels status within the LAPD. Chris retaliates by shining his own floodlights into Abels bedroom. Lisa later reveals she is pregnant, creating conflict with Chris, who does not yet want children. Meanwhile, Abel is suspended without pay for abusing a suspect, inciting more fury within him. Abel continues his harassment of the couple by hosting a loud bachelor party with his colleagues where he forces Chris to be sexually harassed by a stripper. Chris later plants trees along the fence between their properties, which leads to a near-violent exchange, as Abel objects to having trees hanging over his property. When Chris goes to a local bar, Abel enters and tells Chris that his own wife died in a traffic accident because she was having an affair with a white man, and that he distrusts white men and is prejudiced against interracial relationships because of this. Abel sends his informant, Clarence Darlington (Keith Loneker), to trash the Mattsons home in another effort to force them out. Lisa arrives home early, surprising Clarence. They struggle and Lisa is knocked out, but not before she triggers the alarm. Chris races home, followed by a frustrated Abel. When Abel comes upon his hired criminal, he fatally shoots him to keep him quiet. Lisa is rushed to the hospital, but is okay. Wildfires are raging in the surrounding hills and the residents are instructed to leave their homes. Abel, who remains behind, enters the Mattsons home, hoping to retrieve Clarences dropped cell phone, fearing that it will incriminate him. Lisa and Chris unexpectedly return from the hospital before Abel finds the phone, and he leaves. While the Mattsons pack to evacuate, Chris finds the cell phone. He calls the last number dialed and hears Abel answer. Chris realizes Abel is responsible for the break-in, and Abel realizes Chris has discovered the phone. Abel goes over with his gun drawn, and he and Chris struggle. Before Lisa can escape, Abel shoots her car, causing her to crash into a parked vehicle. After pistol whipping Abel and seemingly knocking him out, Chris rescues Lisa and holds Abels other gun at him. Hiding his gun behind his back, Abel insists he is unarmed when county sheriff officers arrive on the scene and that Chris should listen to his wife after he is demanded by the officers to drop his gun. Chris finally throws Abel off by asking him about his wifes death and how she had become unfaithful to him, implying that she had done so because of his strictness. Infuriated, Abel finally pulls out his hidden gun, shooting Chris in the shoulder, prompting Abel to be killed by the deputies in self-defense. Chris survives and he and Lisa later talk about their pride in their home, neighborhood, and soon-to-be family, while the wildfires finally seem to be contained.
Lakeview Terrace
2008