The Turner family moves from the big city (Baltimore, Maryland) to the rural countryside in Tazewell County, Virginia, hoping to start a new life. The move creates problems for everyone, especially 13-year-old Matt (Tom Guiry), who feels lost and alone in his new surroundings, and still has not come to terms with his father Steves (Jon Tenney) remarriage to Laura (Helen Slater) after his mothers death. But with the help of a stray Collie dog named Lassie that the family takes in, Matt learns to adjust to his surroundings, and his family situation, and the two form an unbreakable bond. However, as his Steves planned job falls through, Matt with help from his grandfather (Richard Farnsworth), helps convince the family to start up a sheep farm. While the Turners get to work, a ruthless neighbor and wealthy sheep farmer, Sam Garland (Frederic Forrest), will stop at nothing to prevent them from succeeding, because it means that they will be occupying some grazing land that hes used in the past. In addition, Sam has two sons, Josh (Clayton Barclay Jones) and Jim Garland (Charlie Hofheimer) who attend school with Matt. Both boys dislike Matt, but Joshs hatred mainly stems from jealousy because a fellow student April Porter (Michelle Williams), whom Josh likes, is more interested in Matt. Eventually Sam, with the help of his sons and henchmen, steals the Turners new sheep herd, and kidnaps Lassie. However, she manages to escape, and she and Matt manage to claim their sheep back. However Josh and Jim catch up to them, and in the ensuing scuffle Josh finds himself struggling in a raging river, heading for a huge waterfall. Matt manages to rescue him, but is unable to save himself. Lassie then rescues Matt, but ends up going over the waterfall herself, to everyones dismay. Sam, after learning that Matt had saved his son, Joshs life, apologizes for his actions and for Lassies demise. However, Lassie manages to survive the waterfall, and although weakened, she returns home not too long afterwards.
Lassie (1994 film)
1994