Danny Madigan (Austin OBrien) is a teenaged boy living in a crime-ridden area of New York City with his widowed mother Irene (Mercedes Ruehl). Following the death of his father, Danny takes comfort in watching action movies, especially those featuring the indestructible Los Angeles cop Jack Slater (Arnold Schwarzenegger), at his local movie theatre owned by Nick (Robert Prosky), who also acts as the projectionist. Nick gives Danny a golden ticket once owned by Harry Houdini, to see an early preview of the latest Jack Slater film before its official release. During the film, the ticket stub magically transports Danny inside the fictional world of the film, interrupting Slater in the middle of a car chase. After escaping their pursuers, Slater takes Danny to the LAPD headquarters, where Danny points out the fictional nature of the world, such as the presence of a cartoon cat detective named Whiskers (Danny DeVito), and that Slaters friend Jack Practice (F. Murray Abraham) is played by the same actor who was the antagonist that killed Mozart from Amadeus and shouldnt be trusted; Slater takes these as part of Dannys wild imagination. Slaters supervisor Dekker (Frank McRae) assigns Danny as his new partner, and instructs them to investigate criminal activities related to mobster Tony Vivaldi (Anthony Quinn). Danny guides Slater to Vivaldis mansion, having recognized its location from the start of the film. There, they meet Vivaldi and his henchman, Mr. Benedict (Charles Dance). Danny explains the criminal deeds that the two had carried out from the film, but Slater has no evidence and they are forced to leave; however, Benedict is curious as to how Danny knew of what transpired, and he and several hired guns follow Slater and Danny back to Slaters home. There, Slater, his daughter Whitney (Bridgette Wilson), and Danny thwart the attack, though Benedict ends up getting the ticket stub. He discovers its ability to transport him out of the film. Slater learns of Vivaldis plan to murder his rival mob by releasing a lethal gas during a funeral atop a skyscraper. He and Danny head to stop it, but are waylayed by Practice, who reveals Danny was right as he was working for Vivaldi. Whiskers arrives to save Slater and Dannys lives, and the two are able to prevent any deaths by the gas release. Learning that Vivaldis plan failed, Benedict kills him and uses the stub to escape into the real world, pursued by Slater and Danny. Slater becomes despondent on learning the truth, as well as his mortality in the real world, but cheers up after spending some time with Irene. Meanwhile, Benedict devises a plan to kill Arnold Schwarznegger, the actor that plays Slater, at the premiere of the film, from which he then can bring other villains from other films into the real world and take over. To help, Benedict brings the Ripper (Tom Noonan), the villain of the previous Jack Slater movie, to assassinate Schwarzenegger. Danny and Slater learn of this, and race to the premiere. Slater saves Schwarzenegger, electrocutes the Ripper, and after a bloody fight, then kills Benedict by shooting his explosive glass eye; however, this also causes the stub to be destroyed. With Slater losing blood, Danny knows the only way to save him is to return him to the fictional world, since he is indestructible there. The figure of Death from the film The Seventh Seal (Ian McKellen), who had previously escaped his film, appears to Danny and suggest he search for the other stub of the ticket. Danny finds the stub and is able to take Slater back into the film, his wounds instantly healing. Danny returns to the real world before the portal closes. A recovered Slater then enthusiastically embraces the true nature of his reality when he talks to Dekker about his new plan, appreciating the differences between it and the "real" world.
Last Action Hero
1993