Terry Hawkins (Watkins) has just been released after spending a year in state prison on drug charges. He expresses interest in filmmaking, and claims to have previously made stag films that he was unable to sell. Terry believes audiences want "something more," so he decides to make snuff films. After choosing a large abandoned college as the setting of his film, Terry secures financing from an unsuspecting film company run by a gay film executive named Steve Randall. Terry rounds up a group of women and men— some of them amateur filmmakers— who are willing to help make his film. Among them are filmmaker Bill Drexel; untrained actresses Kathy and her friend Patricia; and Ken, one of Terrys longtime acquaintances. For their first scene, Patricia and Kathy, wearing translucent plastic masks, lure a blind man to the building. There, Terry, donning a Zardoz mask, strangles the man to death while Bill films the murder. At a party that night, pornography director Jim Palmer is waiting anxiously for the gathering to end; his wife Nancy, done up in blackface, is whipped repeatedly in front of party guests as part of a sex game. Jim privately complains to Steve that peoples tastes are becoming "hard to satisfy." The following day, Terry seeks out Nancy, arriving at her house and introducing himself as a mutual friend of Kens; Nancy has appeared in some of Jims stag films with Ken, and is also a close friend of Steves. At her house, Terry and Nancy have sex, and he shows her the footage of the blind mans murder in an attempt to convince her to ask Jim if hell invest in the picture. She is shocked by how realistic the footage looks; Terry confesses that it is in fact real, and rapes her. The next morning, Terry calls Steve and asks him to stop by the building to visit the film set. He also inquires about a young actress named Suzie Knowles for a part in his movie. Steve arrives that night, and is confronted by Terry and his crew inside the building, all of them wearing masks. Steve is knocked unconscious, and awakens to find himself tied up alongside Nancy and Suzie. Terry and his crew brand Suzie across her chest with a hot iron before Terry slashes her throat. The following morning, Terry goes to meet Jim at his office and kidnaps him. At the building, Terry and his crew beat Jim to death while Bill again films the crime. After killing Jim, they take an unconscious Nancy and tie her to a large dining table. She awakens to Bill filming her, while Terry uses a hacksaw to dismember her legs before they eviscerate her with gardening shears. That night, Terry and his crew confront Steve with the corpse of the blind man they killed earlier, and welcome him "back to the edge." Steve flees through the building, where he is confronted in the basement by Terry, who tackles him to the ground. Bill emerges from a dark corridor with his camera while Kathy and Patricia taunt Steve. Patricia removes her mask and takes off her blouse, exposing her breasts. She then unbuttons her pants, revealing a dismembered goat hoof she has held between her legs, which Terry forces Steve to fellate. Steve escapes, but is cornered in a room, where a row of spotlights suddenly light up. Terry and his crew, armed with a power drill, approach Steve, plunging the drill bit through his eye socket, killing him. One by one, they slowly back away from Steves body and disappear into the darkness. As the film fades out, a voiceover informs that Terry, Bill, Ken, Patricia, and Kathy were apprehended and are in a state penitentiary.
Last House on Dead End Street
1977