At the Sawyer homestead, a birthday party is being held by the family matriarch Verna Sawyer (Lili Taylor) for the youngest member of the Sawyer family, Jedidiah. As his birthday present and to induct him into the murderous family rituals, he is presented with a chainsaw and is urged to slaughter a man who they have accused of attempting to steal from them. Jed refuses, visibly disturbed, and the victim is instead killed by Grandpa Sawyer. In 1955, couple Betty Hartman and Ted Hardesty are driving down a country road when they come across the seemingly wounded Jedidiah Sawyer. Betty follows him to a dilapidated barn, where she is promptly killed by the Sawyer family. Her father, Sheriff Hartman (Stephen Dorff), is called to the crime scene, where he is shocked to find his daughter deceased. Despite the efforts of Verna, Hartman quickly takes Jedidiah into custody as revenge, sending him to a mental institution known as the Gorman House Youth Reformery. Ten years later, recently-hired nurse Elizabeth White (Vanessa Grasse) forms a bond with patients Bud and Jackson (Sam Strike) at the Gorman House. Verna arrives later that night with an injunction to allow family visitation for a now teenage Jedidiah, only to be rejected by the director of the facility, Doctor Lang (Chris Adamson). On the way out, she violates security, causing a riot during which many of the nurses and patients are killed. Elizabeth is saved by Jackson, who gets her outside to safety where the two are taken hostage by crazed escapees Ike (James Bloor) and Clarice. As they leave, they come across a bloodied Bud, having just killed Director Lang in a fit of rage, and decide to take him with them. The group arrives at a rest stop diner shortly after changing clothes. Following an altercation with waitress Tammy, Ike and Clarice begin a murder spree within the diner in which Bud is injured and the group is forced to flee. Hartman arrives on the scene with Deputy Sorells (Finn Jones) and discovers that one of the escaped inmates is in fact Jedidiah. That night, the escapees take refuge in an abandoned mobile home where Clarice and Ike engage in sexual intercourse, revealing her scarred body and involving the corpse of the former home owner in the debauchery. While everyone is asleep, Elizabeth tries to escape but is stopped by Ike. Ike continually insults Bud, provoking him to brutalize him to death when the others arent around. The next morning, Clarice notices Ike is missing and heads off to find him; Jackson and Elizabeth find Bud sleeping on Ikes corpse and quickly take him away. Clarice wanders into the woods in search of Ike and is apprehended by Hartman. Upon disparaging both him and his dead daughter, she is shot in the head as the others watch from a distance. Jackson and Bud continue on with Elizabeth in tow. As a Deputy passes, Elizabeth screams out, inadvertently leading to Bud getting shot. Buds death sends Jackson into a rage, as he kills the Deputy and has Elizabeth drive them in the deputys vehicle in attempt to reach safety. During their drive, the two are pursued by the deranged Hartman, who opens fire on them with one of the bullets severing Jacksons face and causing the vehicle to careen off the side of the road. Later that night, Elizabeth awakes handcuffed in Hartmans car and answers a dispatch call, alerting Sorells to her location. Sorells visits Verna and reveals to her that Hartman has Jedidiah at the old barn where Betty was killed. Verna feeds Sorells to her pigs and then gathers the family to converge on Hartmans location. At the barn, Hartman takes Elizabeth and the injured Jackson hostage, revealing that Jackson is Jedidiah Sawyer. Verna arrives and Hartman is soon incapacitated by the other Sawyers. Back at the Sawyer home, Verna stitches the remnants of the mentally-scarred Jedidiah Sawyers face and applies a muzzle to hold them together. She then leads him into a room where his siblings are holding Elizabeth and Hartman captive. She gifts Jedidiah with his original chainsaw and Elizabeth watches on in horror as he bisects Hartman to death. As the family celebrates, Elizabeth flees into the woods while the Sawyers give chase. She nearly escapes, only to be caught in a bear trap. Elizabeth attempts to appeal to Jedidiahs sympathy, while Verna encourages him to kill her to protect their family. Jedidiah begins to listen to Elizabeths pleas that he is not a killer, unable to recall events prior to his injury, until she insults Verna. This causes him to decapitate her in retaliation. The next morning, Verna burns the evidence of the prior nights events and the other Sawyers feed the remains of their victims to the pigs. In the house basement, Jedidiah crafts Hartmans and Elizabeths flesh into a mask and dons it to a mirror as he applies lipstick. The film ends with him smashing the mirror at the sight of his reflection.
Leatherface (2017 film)
2017