Tom Logan (Robert Redford) is an Assistant District Attorney in the New York City District Attorneys Office, who is on his way to becoming the new District Attorney. Into his life enters Laura Kelly (Debra Winger), an attorney who is representing Chelsea Deardon (Daryl Hannah). Chelsea is accused of stealing a painting from millionaire Mr. Forrester (John McMartin). However, Chelsea claims that the painting is actually hers, as her father made it for her and signed it to her on her 8th birthday 18 years ago – the same day that her father and most of his paintings went up in smoke in a mysterious fire. Kelly eventually manages to talk Logan into helping them (after she creates an impromptu press conference at the dinner where Logan is being introduced as the new candidate for District Attorney). However, things turn even more mysterious when Forrester suddenly drops all charges against Chelsea since he has swapped the painting for a Picasso with museum curator Victor Taft (Terence Stamp), Kelly and Logan find out about this after they go to Forresters house to ask him about the alleged crime. That night police detective Cavanaugh (Brian Dennehy) comes up with proof that the paintings that supposedly were lost in the fire—which were worth millions in insurance—are still in existence and that Chelseas father was murdered and the murder was covered up, something which he claims put a strain on his career since it was his investigation. Chelsea also continues coming on to Logan, coming to his apartment being fearful of someone following her. When Logan goes to investigate, he is shot at but the shooter misses and escapes. Logan agrees to continue trying to protect Chelsea while Kelly and him continue her investigation into the paintings. After an attempt by Taft to blow up a warehouse with incriminating information—which almost blows Logan and Kelly up as well—Logan and Kelly find evidence of a massive insurance fraud between Taft, Deardon and Joe Brock, a third man who was sent to prison. Chelsea goes to Tafts apartment with a gun, with the intent to threaten him and obtain information. What happens then is not seen but Chelsea goes back to Logans apartment after being there. She tells him what she had done, claims that Taft managed to get the gun from her and hit her and she is now afraid of the repercussions. Logans daughter from his ex-wife, Jennifer (Jennifer Dundas), is there and does not take kindly to her which leads her to worsen Logans ex-wifes view on what is actually happening when she comes to take their daughter to her home and finds Chelsea in Logans apartment. After they are alone Logan makes Chelsea a bed for her to sleep on her own but during the night Chelsea goes into Logans bed and he fails to resist, they sleep together. Next morning police bust into Logans room waking both up and arresting Chelsea for Tafts murder. Logans career as an Assistant District Attorney is finished. Logan reluctantly teams up with Kelly, which is also encouraged by Logans daughter who thinks the two make a good couple. Realizing that a sculpture Taft claimed to them was priceless but told Chelsea was worthless, Logan goes to find Cavanaugh while Kelly and Chelsea go to an exposition in honor of Taft to find the sculpture. Before they can make it far an assassin tries to run them over with a car, saving Kelly the lawyers split ways long enough for Logan to go on his way pursuing the assassin who fights back but fails to kill Logan since he is hit by a taxi, taking this opportunity Logan steals the mans wallet with information he had taken from them through a bug while Kelly comes to his rescue in Logans car that she barely manages to drive there since she does not know how to drive. They split again with Logan going to the police department to find Cavanaugh and have him bring the police force while Kelly and Chelsea go to Tafts museum where the exposition in his honor is being held. There, the person they thought was Cavanaugh reveals himself as Joe Brock, Logan finds out on his own since the real Cavanaugh is a different man, a cop that wasnt aware that someone had been using his identity. Logan, having realized that Cavanaugh was not who he thought he was, races to the gallery. Brock forces Kelly and Chelsea to break open the hollow sculpture, grabs the painting inside and cuffs Chelsea to a table while struggling with Kelly, eventually leaving her unconscious. He then sets fire to another part of the gallery, forcing an evacuation as a way to leave with the painting and without anyone noticing. Logan arrives and interrupts Brocks escape, Logan and Brock fight, with Brock eventually falling to his death. Logan finds Kelly and Chelsea, grabs the painting and the three escape from the burning gallery, where Chelsea tearfully reveals the signature "To Chelsea" on the back of the painting. After all charges against Chelsea are dropped, Logans former boss offers to take him back, based on Logans publicity. Logan, however, decides to stay with Kelly, and the two set up an office together.
Legal Eagles
1986