In March 1983, in Los Alamos, New Mexico, a disfigured man is taken to the hospital. An unnamed police detective tries to question him about a recent murder. While the detective answers a call outside the room, the disfigured man jumps out of the window, leaving behind a note that reads "Im sorry Abby." Two weeks earlier, Owen, an unhappy and lonely 12-year-old boy who is neglected by his divorcing parents, sees a young girl, Abby, and an older man moving in next door. Owen and Abby become close friends and start communicating by Morse code through the walls of their apartments. At school, a teenage bully named Kenny and two of his friends constantly terrorize Owen, who lies to his mother about it but tells Abby the truth. Abby encourages him to retaliate, and pledges to protect him. Abbys companion, Thomas, abducts a local teenager and drains his blood into a jug, only to accidentally spill all of the jugs contents. Starving, Abby attacks a neighbor and drinks his blood, killing him and forcing Thomas to dispose of the body. On another night, Thomas hides in the back of another car, but is discovered. In the ensuing struggle, the car falls into a ditch and flips over. Trapped, Thomas pours concentrated sulfuric acid on his face, rendering his features unrecognizable and bringing the story back to the first scene. Abby learns what happened and visits Thomas, who lets her drink his blood before falling to his death. That night, Owen is awakened by Abby, who insists he verbally invite her in. She spends the night in his bed and agrees to be his girlfriend. The next day, Owens class goes ice-skating on a river. Cornered by the bullies, Owen hits Kenny with a metal pole, splitting his left ear. At the same moment, the students spot the neighbors body encased in the ice. Later, Owen tries to make a blood pact with Abby. Seeing blood, Abby reveals her vampire form and flees, feeding on another neighbor, who later bursts into flames when exposed to sunlight at the hospital. A nurse tries to help her by offering a healing hug, but is also unexpectedly consumed by the uprising fire due to her contact with the patient. The hospital room is filled with explosive flames almost instantaneously, to the surprise of her husband who recently stepped out of the room for questioning with a self-proclaimed and state-licensed police officer. The next night, Abby admits to Owen that she is a vampire and that Thomas was not her father. Owen discovers an aged photo of her with Thomas as a young boy. Owen sneaks out to spend the night at Abbys. In the morning, the detective forces his way into Abbys apartment and finds her asleep, only to be distracted by Owen. Abby wakes and attacks the detective, killing him. Abby tells Owen she will have to leave town. They share a kiss and he watches tearfully as she enters a taxi and leaves. During swim class, Kenny, Jimmy (Kennys older brother), and their friends ambush Owen and begin to drown him, only to be dismembered by Abby. The next day, Owen leaves town on a train, traveling with a large trunk. From inside, a message in Morse code is tapped out. Owen smiles and taps out a response.
Let Me In (film)
2010