In Colombia, an American engineer named Harry Burck is overseeing the opening of his companys water pipeline. In the middle of the unveiling ceremony, a group of rebels arrives to kidnap an American diplomat who is in attendance. In the process, Harry is also kidnapped. Word of the kidnapping reaches Harrys brother Corey and his friends Bob, Spence, and Kurt, who were all awaiting Harrys return. The men, coworkers at a factory, learn that Harrys kidnapping was orchestrated by a drug lord named Carlos Ochobar. Corey and Bob travel to Washington, D.C. to seek assistance from the U.S. government, only to be told that there are no plans to mount a rescue. Harrys father, Harry Burck, Sr., is despondent over the kidnapping of his son. Kurt reminds his friends that they all personally owe Harry something, and that their only choice is to rescue him themselves. Despite some resistance and skepticism from Kurt and Spence, all the men eventually agree to go. Before heading to Colombia, they enlist the financial help of a sympathetic local car salesman, Jack, who insists on going along as a condition of funding the rescue, and the military expertise of a mercenary named Norman Shrike. Due to the urgency of the mission, Shrike is only able to give the group perfunctory training in military tactics. Once in Colombia, the group encounters resistance, both from local officials and from the U.S. government. The group eventually lands in jail after being set up by one of Shrikes contacts who was going to supply them with weapons. They are handed over to U.S. officials and put on a plane back to the U.S. Just prior to takeoff, the group manages to escape, but Kurt decides to give up and go home. The group resumes their trek toward Ochobars camp. Eventually, they are engaged by rebels. Shrike is killed in a firefight while saving one of the mens lives. The group ventures on with the help of a local woman, Veronica, and they eventually find Ochobars hideout. In the ensuing shootout with Ochobars men, Jack is killed. The group is able to save Harry and escape, destroying Ochobars camp in the process. Harry and the men return home to a heros welcome.
Let's Get Harry
1986