The action takes place at Lombardy College, founded "to give the Indian nations of North America access to higher education". Little Black Cloud (Nat Pendleton) enrolls as "George Black". After being the subject of a hazing prank by football star Bob Hayner (Dick Baldwin), George decides he is too humiliated to stay at school. He first stops to get his ripped pants repaired and meets the Ritz Brothers who convince him to stay. Tim OHara (Fred Stone), the football coach, is being pressured to resign because of his age. Janet (Gloria Stuart), the coachs daughter, is Bobs love interest. Bob is on the committee trying to force out Coach OHara, but he likes the coachs daughter Janet. He tries to gain Janets approval by helping her father, but fails at both. Janet, meanwhile, helps George escape from Inez (Joan Davis, a love-struck student. Then George wishes to return the favor by helping the coach. George is actually rich, but does not want anyone to know in case they only like him for his money. The Ritz Brothers offer to pretend it is their money. After spending a good deal on themselves, the brothers donate $50,000 to the college with two conditions: OHara must remain as coach, and they must be allowed to play for the football team. After a scuffle between them on the practice field, Bob is replaced by George as quarterback. A winning streak for Lombardy ensues, no thanks to the Ritz Brothers, who score for the other side whenever they play. Inez continues to pursue George, and Janets feelings towards Bob soften. Bob, however, is being pursued by his former girlfriend, Cuddles (Joan Marsh). It turns out that Georges participation on a company football team makes him a professional and therefore ineligible for the college team. This information is used by Cuddles to blackmail Bob into dating her. When she sees Bob with Janet, she makes good on her threat of exposing George right before the "big game". Since George cannot play, Bob must take over as quarterback. Bob scores a touchdown but breaks his collarbone while the other team is still ahead. The Ritz Brothers sneak onto the field and nearly destroy Lombardys chances with their antics. At the last second Harry Ritz scores an unlikely touchdown to win the game.
Life Begins in College
1937