A mailman delivers two packages and whistles out loud. Tom approaches to see that nothing is in his mailbox but he spots a package in Jerrys mailbox though, and opens it to find a book entitled "Life with Tom". He hides in the bush as Jerry walks towards his mailbox and retrieves a letter. Tom then hears a radio program which announces the publication of "Life with Tom" by Jerry Mouse revealing that Jerrys book is his autobiography. Tom opens the book and flips the page to "Dedicated to Tom --- Without whom --- I could do very well". Tom flips forward a few pages. We read "Chapter VII Life with Tom wasnt always one continuous battle ... one day, believe it or not, Tom took me fishing. Twas a sunny summer morning and the first thing I knew ---". This leads to 1947s Cat Fishin beginning where Tom uses Jerry as bait and ending where Spike gives chase. Back to the present day, where the book reads: "To this day Tom still thinks he caught a new species of dog fish ---". This makes Tom furious and he overhears Butch, Meathead, Lightning (gray-tone) and Topsy laughing. He skims to another page. The book reads "Chapter XI On Thanksgiving day, my little nephew and I dressed up as pilgrims --- Tom, of course, also got into the act ---". The scene segues into 1949s The Little Orphan beginning where Jerry and Nibbles are walking along the dinner table dressed as pilgrims and ending where Tom surrenders, waving the white flag. Back to the present day, Tom hears Spike and Tyke laughing. He extends his neck out to see what page the father and son dogs are reading and moves to the page where Jerry reveals: "Chapter XX A dog may be mans best friend but my best friend happens to be a canary ---- For once I really was in trouble" The scene changes to 1948s Kitty Foiled beginning where the canary is shocked to witness Tom and Jerrys violent exploits and ending where Tom plunges down a hole aboard a train about an inch from Jerry because a bowling ball is thrown into the floor in the path of the train. Back again to the present day. With everyone laughing at his expense, Tom is eventually infuriated to discover he is a laughing stock. He marches over to Jerrys hole, furiously tears off the facade and then smashing the book over Jerry to possibly serve Jerry right. Offended by Toms behavior, Jerry shows him the letter that he had received that morning, revealing that he received $50,000 in royalties for the book, of which half is for Tom in accordance to his wishes. Flattered to discover a check for himself, Tom – realizing that even through the ups and downs, Jerry still considers him a friend – has a change of heart about the autobiography and he now starts seeing the funny sides of it all and burst out laughing as Jerry looks on proudly.
Life with Tom
1953