In a textile factory, an employee named Esther encounters a silhouette of a woman when the lights are off, but cannot see it when the lights are on. She warns her boss Paul. He also encounters the woman and notes that she will not come into the light. He is killed by the woman after she chases him through the factory. A short time later, a young woman named Rebecca is called into the school nurse’s office of her brother, Martin. Rebecca and Martin are half-siblings, sharing the same mom: Sophie. The nurse was unable to get in touch with Sophie to inform her that Martin has been falling asleep in class lately. An official from Child Protective Services questions Rebecca about Martin’s living conditions. Rebecca tells the official that she Sophie has depression, and is taking antidepressants. Rebecca also tells the official Paul was her stepfather, and that her real father ran away when she was a child. Rebecca and her boyfriend, Bret, take Martin to Sophie’s house. Martin tells Rebecca that Sophie has been talking to a woman named “Diana”. Rebecca assures Martin that Diana isn’t a real person, and that she had also heard Sophie talk to the imaginary Diana when she was a child. Rebecca gets in an argument with Sophie when she realizes her mom is not taking her medication, so she takes Martin to her apartment so he can rest. That night, Rebecca is woken by the same woman that killed Paul after she notices her scratching at the floor. Rebecca narrowly escapes an attack from the woman when she turns the lights on and the woman disappears. The next morning, Rebecca notices the word “Diana” has been scratched into her floor, along with a stick figure drawing of a woman. Rebecca has a flashback to when she found the same name and drawing as a child, and realizes Diana is real. While her mom is running errands, Rebecca sneaks into Sophies house and finds a box of medical records and other research in Paul’s office. Pauls findings reveal that Sophie was admitted to a mental hospital as a child. While there, she befriended a young patient named Diana. Diana suffered a severe skin condition, and was accidentally killed by the hospital staff when they performed surgery on her under intense light. Rebecca also learns that Diana was admitted to the mental hospital after her dad committed suicide, and that it was believed that Diana was able to "get into peoples heads". Rebecca, Bret, and Martin stage an intervention at Sophie’s house about how Diana’s spirit is haunting them all. Sophie becomes irate, says she won’t abandon her friend, then locks herself in her bedroom. The team decides to stay the night at Sophie’s, intending to get her help in the morning. To avoid an attack from Diana during the night, they rig the house to be as brightly lit as possible. This proves to be useless when Diana cuts the power to the neighborhood. Diana traps Rebecca and Martin in the basement, and attempts to kill Bret. Bret escapes Diana, and drives to get help from the police. In the basement, Rebecca finds a black light while searching for light sources to brighten the basement. When Rebecca clearly sees Diana with the black light, she realizes it’s not powerful enough to harm her. Bret returns with two police officers. The officers free Martin and Rebecca from the basement, only to be murdered by Diana. As they’re fleeing the house, Rebecca remembers Sophie is still in her bedroom. As she climbs the stairs to retrieve her mom, Diana tells Rebecca that she killed Rebecca’s father years ago. Diana throws Rebecca off the second floor landing. As Diana prepares to kill Rebecca, Sophie appears, with a gun from one of the dead officers. Sophie realizes she is the tether for Diana to exist in the real world, and commits suicide. As Sophie falls to the floor, Diana vanishes. Later, Bret comforts Martin and Rebecca in an ambulance outside of Sophie’s house. The three of them appear to be slightly spooked when the ambulance lights flicker.
Lights Out (2016 film)
2016