Two police officers knock on the door of a home and a drunk man answers. Rip Porter lives at the house with his wife Wendy. The police say they are checking on a domestic disturbance and find Wendy injured. They arrest Rip, and he is sent to prison. Seven years later, Rip is released from prison. Rip has changed; he is now sober and has taken anger management courses. When Rip suggests starting a family, Wendy is forced to reveal that she gave birth to their son while he was in prison but gave the baby up for adoption to the Campbells who live in Florida. Rip immediately wants custody of his son, and has a right to do so because Wendy forged his signature on the adoption papers. Jack and Molly Campbell have enjoyed an idyllic life with Wendy and Rips son, Joey. When a judge upholds Rip and Wendys claim, Molly and Jack are distraught. As a last resort, Jack travels to Ohio and offers Rip money in exchange for Joey. Rip refuses, and gets in a physical altercation with Jack. Joeys first visit with Wendy and Rip goes exceptionally well but since his confrontation with Jack, Rip starts drinking again due to stress. On the next visit when Joey refuses to take a shower, Rip is at first patient but eventually loses his temper. He roughly puts Joey in the shower, and unintentionally leaves a bruise on Joeys arm. Before Joey leaves, Wendy tells him about making a wish by blowing on a dandelion. Once hes gone, Wendy tells Rip that she arranged to have Joey spend an extra week with Jack and Molly. This upsets Rip and he seriously assaults Wendy. When Joey returns home, he shows his bruise to Jack and Molly and tells them what happened. Molly convinces Jack they should flee the country with Joey. They join a church mission trip to Haiti, with Mollys sister and her husband. Jack has arranged for the three of them to fly out to another country. However, Mollys sister is suspicious and calls Allyson Bower, the child services agent in charge of Joeys case. The Campbells are returned to the US where they meet with Allyson Bower and Wendy. A regretful Rip agrees to receiving help and guidance for his alcoholism and anger problems in the hope of becoming a better man. Wendy tells the Campbells that Rip never meant to hurt Joey, but that he is not ready to be a father. Jack apologizes to her for trying to bribe Rip. Ultimately, Wendy agrees to hand Joey over to them permanently and signs a revised adoption paper with Rips signature. As Wendy bids Joey goodbye, she expresses her hopes that she and Rip can have a relationship with him when he grows older.
Like Dandelion Dust
2010