Eddie Morra (Bradley Cooper) is a struggling author with writers block. His girlfriend Lindy (Abbie Cornish), frustrated with his lack of progress, breaks up with him. Later, Eddie bumps into Vernon (Johnny Whitworth), the forgotten brother of his ex-wife, Melissa (Anna Friel). Vernon gives Eddie a sample of a new nootropic (smart drug), NZT-48. Returning to his apartment, Eddie takes the drug and discovers he now has perfect recall and the ability to cross-correlate information quickly. After seducing his landlords wife while helping her craft a perfect law school essay, he cleans his apartment obsessively in a few hours, and begins writing a new book. The next day, the effects having worn off, he brings the pages he wrote to his publisher, who praises them. Eddie seeks out Vernon in an attempt to get more, but while he is running errands for him, Vernon is murdered. Eddie discovers Vernons NZT-48 supply and begins ingesting the drug daily. With the help of the drugs effects, Eddie spends a few weeks cleaning up his life. He soon discovers other abilities, such as being able to pick up new languages and skills in a matter of days and perfect hand-eye coordination, as well as a new sense of confidence and ambition. Testing his analytical skills on the stock market with Vernons stash of money, Eddie quickly begins making large returns on small investments. He borrows $100,000 from a reluctant Russian loan shark, Gennady (Andrew Howard), and is hired at a brokerage firm, where he parlays this capital into over two million dollars in just a few weeks. He also soon resumes his relationship with Lindy. Eddies success leads to a meeting with finance tycoon Carl Van Loon (Robert De Niro), who tests him by seeking advice on a merger with Hank Atwoods (Richard Bekins) company. After the big meeting in downtown Manhattan, Eddie starts experiencing hallucinations and the sense of time skipping forward. As this effect recurs over the course of the day and night he finds himself in several different places, realizing that 18 hours have passed which he cannot remember. Eddie goes through Vernons ledger and discovers that everyone taking NZT-48 is either in the hospital or dead. A man in a trench coat (Tomas Arana) is revealed to have been following him. Eddie meets with Melissa, who informs him that she too had been on NZT-48, and that when she attempted to stop taking it she had experienced a severe mental and physical rebound effect. Gennady later catches Eddie going home and demands the money be paid back with interest immediately. He then discovers and ingests Eddies NZT-48, after which he begins using Eddie as his source for the drug. Desperate for a pill after Gennady takes his last dose on hand, he asks Lindy to retrieve his stash from her apartment. While bringing the pills to Eddie, she notices the man in the trench coat following her. She calls Eddie for help and he encourages her to take one of the pills. On NZT, Lindy is able to use a little girl ice skating in Central Park to slash the man in the trench coat and escape. After spending the night together in a hotel, Lindy says she cannot be with him while he is on the drug because it makes him a different person. Eddie experiments with NZT-48 and learns to control his dosage, sleep schedule, and food intake to prevent side effects. He hires a laboratory in an attempt to reverse engineer NZT-48, an attorney (Ned Eisenberg) to keep the police from investigating Vernons death, and two bodyguards to protect him from Gennady, who is threatening him to obtain more NZT-48. On the day of the merger, Atwoods wife informs Van Loon that Atwood has fallen into a coma. Eddie recognizes Atwoods driver as the man in the trench coat and realizes Atwood is on NZT-48. While Eddie participates in a police lineup, his attorney steals Eddies whole supply of NZT-48 from his jacket. Soon afterward, Eddie enters withdrawal, and hurries home after Van Loon questions him about Atwoods coma. Before leaving the office, Eddie receives a package containing the severed hands of the bodyguards he had hired. Gennady breaks into Eddies apartment, demanding more NZT-48, but Eddie kills him and his henchmen and escapes. He meets with the man in the trench coat outside Atwoods hospital room, surmising that Atwood had employed the man to locate more NZT-48. However, when Atwood dies, they recover Eddies stash from the attorney. A year later, Eddie has retained his wealth, published a book, and is running for the United States Senate with plans to run for the United States Presidency. Van Loon visits him and reveals that he has absorbed the company that produced NZT-48 and shut down Eddies laboratory - he offers Eddie a continued supply of the drug in exchange for becoming his personal lobbyist in the government. However, Eddie tells Van Loon that hes already perfected the drug and successfully weaned himself off it, retaining his abilities with none of the side effects. He leaves and meets Lindy at a Chinese restaurant for lunch and speaks to the waiter in Chinese, implying that he had either retained his abilities or was still on NZT-48.
Limitless (film)
2011