Jerry decides to school Tuffy in the basics of outwitting a cat. After teaching him what will happen if a cat catches him and how mad a cat will be if a mouse escapes into its hole, Jerry teaches him how to look for danger when he is leaving his mousehole. Using a mousehole facade and a mechanical cats paw operated by a crank, Jerry sees what Tuffy does, only for Tuffy to fail when the paw catches him, but soon regrets demonstrating the proper method after Tuffy enthusiastically smacks him several times with the paw. On his next lesson, Tuffy is taught how to retrieve a cats whisker without waking the cat, with Jerry plucking one successfully from Tom. However, Tuffy manages to drag Tom back with him by his whiskers, causing him to chase the pair; while Tuffy escapes into the pairs mousehole, Jerry gets left outside and beaten up. For Tuffys next lesson, Jerry teaches him to get cheese without waking the cat guarding it, and manages to get a small piece of it while ensuring Tom stays asleep in his nap, but becomes dumbfounded when Tuffy asks a somewhat sleepy Tom to give him a whole block of cheese, which he brings back with him. Eventually, Jerry brings Tuffy on to his final lesson - to tie a bell around a cats neck. However, Tom, fully aware of what Jerry is planning, fakes sleeping and plays along with letting him tie a bell around his neck; by the time Jerry realises Tom is actually awake, he is quickly beaten up and forced to return with the bell tied around his own neck. Tuffy, nervous at what happens, decides to bring his bell cautiously to Tom within a large present, who is delighted to be given it as a gift and happily puts it on. Jerry, utterly humiliated at what has happened, takes his diploma for evading cats and throws it out into the trash. A short while later, Tuffy begins teaching a new class on how cats and mice should be friends, much to Jerrys dislike, now as he is a student, only for Tom to agree to the idea and affectionately being nice to the mouse, much to his chagrin.
Little School Mouse
1954