On the farm, a mama duck goes out for a swim, leaving behind an egg in her nest. But Tom craftily reaches into the nest and takes the egg for cooking. He rushes back to his kitchen and places a frying pan over the hob. However, when Tom breaks the egg open, instead of getting the albumen and yolk, the only thing he gets is a duckling, Quacker. Not to be put off, Tom decides he will cook a roasted duck instead. But to do so, he acquires Quackers "cooperation." Tom feeds Quacker on plenty of bread to fatten and stuff him up, and while the duckling is not looking, the cat gets hold of a cleaver and attempts to chop Quacker up, but invariably misses. The duckling escapes into Jerrys mouse hole and into his bed, shaking in terror (the shape under Jerrys sheet resembles a ringing bell). Jerry uncovers Quacker, who informs the mouse of what Tom was tried to do with him. Then the Quacker hides back under Jerrys bed and shakes in terror once again. Jerry emerges from his mouse hole cautiously, but Tom is quick and cuts him down with his cleaver... almost. Quacker, believing that Jerry has been beheaded, he pulls the mouses legs, only for the camera to pull away, showing that Tom has only managed to catch Jerry by the whiskers. Jerry is set free and gets his revenge on Tom by grabbing the cats tail and sticking it out of the hole, so that Tom reflexively chops it with the cleaver and then screams in pain upon doing so. The chase continues outside where Tom tries to chop them, only to cleave through a support post and bring down a section of roof on his head. Jerry hides in a small hole in a post and Tom tries to chop him. Quacker comes to his friends aid with an axe and chops down the post; Tom flees from the toppling behemoth, but is hammered into the ground by the very end of it. Later on, Quacker and Jerry search for his mama, while Tom uses a duck call to lure the duckling, but Jerry is clued in as to what the cat is doing, and quickly substitutes his duck caller for a stick of dynamite which blows up into his face. Tom chases them into a large tree with a single-barreled shotgun. He thrusts the rifle in, only for the barrel to bend towards his backside which he accidentally fires at. Jerry and Quacker flee, but they ram into a tire and hide in it. Tom grabs a sledgehammer from the ground and tries to smack them, but the tire causes the sledgehammer to bounce back and smack him right in the face. Entranced, the cat gently places the hammer on the ground and falls down. Jerry and Quacker escape as Tom awakens from the trance, he grabs a lawnmower and charges after them. Meanwhile, Quackers mother walks around the farm, looking and calling for him. Tom chases after Jerry and Quacker with the lawnmower, but ultimately ends up running over the ducklings mothers front feathers, revealing her undergarments. She covers them with a look of shock and embarrassment on her face, but both mother and son are reunited. Unfortunately, Tom suddenly grabs Quacker from her, but she angrily grabs her baby back from him. After Quacker tells his mother what was happened and who was the cause of this, she demands to know what Tom thinks hes doing to her baby, saying, "He did?". But Toms only answer is scornful mimicry of her quacking. (It is presumed by some that that is his way of replying, "I did!") The enraged mother is shocked and immediately calls her husband ("HENRY!"). Suddenly, Henry shows up, an enormous duck who proves to be tattooed like a sailor and strong as an ox, much to Toms confusion and Jerrys surprise. The mother duck tells him what Toms attempted to do on their son and how she was minding her own business when he ran over her with the lawnmower, ending indignantly with "And he got smart, too!" Henry is now infuriated as he glares at Tom and says, "He did?" An intimidated Tom, now realizing he has been put into serious trouble, flees for his life as the infuriated duck gives a chase. Too panicked to look where he is going, Tom slams his face into a tree, which enables Henry to run the lawnmover continuously up and down on his back, thus giving him lots of painful cuts. In the last scene, Quacker and his mother are swimming in the pond with her towing Jerry Mouse on a little raft. Jerry uses a duck caller to sound like mama and baby (but just sounds like a muted trombone instead), then the two friends face each other and smile.
Little Quacker
1950