Danny OShea (Rick Moranis) has always lived in the shadow of his older brother, Kevin (Ed ONeill), a Heisman Trophy winner and a local football hero. They live in their hometown of Urbana, Ohio. Kevin coaches the local "Pee-Wee Cowboys" football team. Despite being the best player, Dannys tomboy daughter, Becky (Shawna Waldron), nicknamed Icebox, is cut during try outs because she is a girl. Also cut are her less-talented friends, Rashid Hanon (who cant catch anything), Tad Simpson (who cant run), and Rudy Zolteck (whos overweight and quite flatulent). After being ridiculed by the other players who made the team, she convinces her dad to coach a new pee-wee team of their own. At first, Danny is reluctant to do so, but later accepts in an attempt to show Urbania that Kevin is not invincible, and that there is another OShea in town capable of winning. Kevin mockingly reminds him of the "one town, one team" rule and with the help of the locals, they decide to have a playoff game to determine the lone team that will represent Urbania. Among Becky, Hanon, Tad, Rudy, and Nubie (an intelligent boy who becomes assistant coach), Danny also gathers other children that have never been given a chance and dubs the team the "Little Giants." One such player is Junior Floyd (Devon Sawa), a strong-armed quarterback who turns out to be the son of Dannys childhood crush, Patty Floyd (Susanna Thompson). Becky slowly develops a crush on him and struggles with her newfound feelings as a girl. Two old-timers, Orville (Harry Fleer) and Wilbur (Dabbs Greer), encourage the rivalry between Danny and Kevin by reporting to them that a new star player, Spike Hammersmith (Sam Horrigan), has just moved to Urbania. Danny succeeds at recruiting him by tricking his overzealous father, Mike (Brian Haley), that he is the famous "Coach OShea", but this is a problem as Spike proves to be rude, arrogant, and refuses to play on a team with a girl. The deception is later discovered and he switches over to Kevins more well-structured team. Kevin also encourages his daughter, Debbie (Courtney Peldon), to be a cheerleader and later convinces Becky that a quarterback will want to date a cheerleader, not a teammate. Believing it is her best chance to win over Junior, she decides to quit the team and pursue cheerleading. Just as Dannys team start to lose hope, a bus arrives carrying NFL stars John Madden, Emmitt Smith, Bruce Smith, Tim Brown, and Steve Emtman. They teach and inspire the young players into believing they can win. On the day of the game, Kevin chastises Danny into making an impulsive bet. If Danny wins, he gets Kevins Chevrolet dealership; if Kevin wins, he gets Dannys gas station. Facing a 21-point halftime deficit, the Giants are lifted when Danny asks them to individually recall a time when they had a proud accomplishment and reassures them that all it takes is "one time" to beat the Cowboys. With this, they begin to make a big comeback with a series of outstanding and unexpected plays. Realizing that Junior is the main threat to them, Spike, under orders from Mike, injures him by spearing him with his helmet after the whistle, which even Kevin considers disgraceful, unsportsmanlike conduct. Witnessing from the sidelines, an enraged Becky drops her pompoms and suits up for the game. She immediately makes an impact when she forces a fumble after a jarring hit on Spike. Other Giants make touchdowns in tandem with overcoming personal problems, such as Hanons fear of dropping passes and making a reception, or another one running towards the goal line when his little-seen dad has come to watch him play. In the games closing seconds with the score tied at 21 all, the Giants make a goal line stand and stop Spike. With time remaining for one final play, their offense steps back onto the field and uses a trick play Nubie calls "The Annexation of Puerto Rico," inspired by one of Maddens plays at Super Bowl XI. Kevin shouts out its actual name as it occurs, shouting "Fumblerooski, Fumblerooski!" The play includes three different ball carriers, utilizing the hook and lateral from Zolteck, to Junior, and finally to Berman, who scores the Giants 99 yard game-winning touchdown. Afterwards, Danny says that rather than having the Giants solely represent Urbania, they should merge with the Cowboys, and both he and Kevin can coach the team. Danny and Patty rekindle their childhood romance. He also decides not to hold Kevin to the prior bet, on the condition that the town water tower be changed from "Home of Kevin OShea" to "Home of The OShea Brothers," reflecting a much earlier promise that Kevin made to Danny from their childhood.
Little Giants
1994