The film starts off with Calvin "Babyface" Simms (Marlon Wayans) who is a very short convict. He is seen getting released and planning a robbery to steal a diamond with the help of his goofball cohort Percy (Tracy Morgan). After the successful robbery, the duo are almost arrested, but not before Calvin manages to stash the diamond in a nearby womans purse. The thieves follow the handbags owner to her home where they discover a couple, Darryl (Shawn Wayans) and Vanessa Edwards (Kerry Washington), who are eager to have a child. Calvin and Percy hatch a plot to pass Calvin off as a baby left on the couples doorstep. After seeing Calvin, Darryl and Vanessa, wanting a child, immediately adopt the baby as their own. However, Vanessas dad Francis "Pops" (John Witherspoon) has a bad feeling about Calvin. Friends of the couple find Calvin odd as well. Soon, Calvin warms up to the family. A local goon named Walken (Chazz Palminteri), discovers the deception and demands the diamond from Percy. Percy arrives at the house that Calvin is staying in, and convinces Walkens henchmen that Darryl is his partner. Walken and his henchmen go to the house and they keep Calvin and Darryl hostage. In a series of comedic maneuvers, Calvin manages to rescue Darryl and have Walken arrested. Darryl is given a substantial reward for the recovery of the diamond, and since Calvin saved his life, he doesnt turn him over to the police. Before he leaves, Calvin thanks Darryl for taking care of him even though he wasnt really a baby and admits that he thinks Darryl would make a great father for a real child someday. Calvin is about to be out of Darryls life for good, as Darryl watches him leave. Calvin is crying hysterically, so Darryl decides to let Calvin stay and from that point on, the two men become the best of friends. The film ends at some point in the future with Calvin and Pops playing with Darryl and Vanessas real baby, who looks exactly like Darryl (Shawn Wayans face superimposed on that of the baby). And they all lived happily ever after.
Little Man (2006 film)
2006