Billy Heywood, the 12-year-old son of widowed Jenny, is a Little League Baseball player. Billys paternal grandfather is Thomas Heywood, owner of the Minnesota Twins. The Twins are a last-place team, but Billy and his grandfather love each other, the Twins, and the game of baseball. When Thomas dies, his will reveals that he has given the team to Billy. Thomas specifies that, if Billy is still a minor at the time of his death, his aides are to help him until Billy is old enough to run the team by himself. Billy quickly runs afoul of the teams manager, George OFarrell. Billy believes OFarrell is too hard on the players, while OFarrell despises the idea of working for a kid. After OFarrell insults Billy and tells him to butt out of the teams business, Billy fires him. With no potential new managers willing to work for a kid, and with his grade-school summer break starting in two days, the baseball-savvy Billy decides to name himself the new manager. He reaches out to the Commissioner of Baseball, who approves after consulting with Jenny. The players are very skeptical, but Billy promises that if he does not improve the teams position in the standings within a few weeks, he will resign. The team quickly moves up to division race contention. Unfortunately, not all is going smoothly for Billy, as his friend and star first baseman Lou Collins takes a romantic interest in Jenny. Billy picks up bad habits on the road, and is even ejected from a game and given a one game "suspension" by his mother for throwing a temper tantrum and swearing at an umpire because of a call he didnt like. He also must release his personal favorite Twins player, Jerry Johnson, who is clearly in the twilight of his career. He ends up making Jerry feel even worse when Billy immaturely tries to illustrate his own distress by pointing out he owns Jerrys baseball card and wouldnt give it up for a Wade Boggs and a Sammy Sosa. The pressures of managing the team wear Billy down and consume his free time. Billys friends do not like how his managerial responsibilities are keeping him away from being with them. Even when hes physically present (as opposed to on the road with the team), he is typically distracted by team business. After Jenny spends her birthday with Lou rather than Billy, Billy uses Lous minor batting-slump as an excuse to bench him, sending the Twins into a losing skid. Billy later tells his mom that hes tired of being a "grown-up" and decides to quit as manager after the end of the season, even reinstating Lou to starter on first base. With four games left in the season, the Twins trail the Seattle Mariners by four games in the wild card race. The Twins win their last four while the Mariners lose four straight, forcing a one-game playoff at the Twins Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome to determine who advances to the postseason. The two teams trade three-run home runs during the course of the game, and extra innings are required. The Mariners eventually take the lead. Down to their final out, and Lou about to go up to bat, he tells Billy that he has asked Jenny to marry him, and that her reply was "Ask Billy". With a runner on base, Billy says if Lou hits the game-winning homer he will give his blessing, but quickly relents and gives Lou his consent whether or not he hits a homer. Facing Randy Johnson, Lou hits a long fly ball to center field, but Ken Griffey Jr. makes a leaping catch at the wall to rob Lou of a homer and end the game. With their season over, Billy tells the players he is officially stepping down as manager, with pitching coach Mac MacNally taking his place, as well as bringing back Jerry Johnson to be the third base coach and new hitting instructor. The players object to losing Billy, but he reminds the team that he will still be present as the owner, and says that he might come back as manager if junior high doesnt work out. When being informed that none of the fans have left, Billy, along with the rest of the team, returns to the field to receive a standing ovation.
Little Big League
1994