Jimmy Logan is laid off from his construction job at the Charlotte Motor Speedway. While visiting his ex-wife Bobbie Jo to pick up their daughter Sadie for a beauty pageant rehearsal, he learns that Bobbie Jo and her new husband are moving to Lynchburg, making it even harder for Jimmy to visit. Jimmy goes to a bar, run by his brother Clyde, an Iraq War veteran who wears a prosthetic hand. Max Chilblain, a pretentious British businessman and NASCAR-team owner, arrives with his friends and insults Clyde, leading to a fight with Jimmy. Meanwhile, Clyde sets fire to Maxs car with a Molotov cocktail. On his way out, Jimmy yells "cauliflower," which Clyde recognizes as a codeword they used when they committed crimes as young boys. Next day, Jimmy reveals his plan to rob the Speedway, exploiting his knowledge of their pneumatic tube system for moving money. Clyde agrees to the plan, and he and Jimmy recruit their sister Mellie, Joe Bang, a convicted safecracker, and Joes dimwitted brothers Sam and Fish. They plan to break Joe out of prison and return him, after the heist is complete, before anyone notices. Clyde intentionally gets himself sent to prison on a minor charge. Mellie, Sam, and Fish infest the Speedways pneumatic tubes with cockroaches that Mellie had painted different colors, helping them determine which set of tubes to use. While gathering supplies, Jimmy meets former schoolmate Sylvia, who runs a mobile clinic in need of donations; Sylvia provides Jimmy with a tetanus shot, and the two strike up a conversation. Later, Jimmy learns that construction at the speedway is being completed ahead of schedule, forcing them to reschedule the heist for an earlier date, during the much busier Coca-Cola 600 race on Memorial Day weekend. Joe and Clyde arrange for the prisons inmates to stage a riot, resulting in a lockdown to hide their absence. They escape by hiding under a delivery truck. Mellie meets them with a Ford Mustang GT, stolen from Bobbie Jos husband. At the speedway, Sam and Fish destroy a generator with an explosive, forcing all vendors to accept cash only. Joe improvises an explosive from bleach, gummy bears, and a dietary salt substitute, which detonates within the pneumatic tube system, allowing the crew to begin collecting all of the vendors cash. The staff notice smoke coming out of the tubes, and security guards investigate, but a diversion set up by Jimmy and one of Clydes bar patrons prevents them from discovering the heist. The airflow in the tube delivering the money is reversed, causing Clydes prosthetic arm to be lost. Making their way back to the prison, Clyde and Joe are recognized by Chilblain and his sponsored NASCAR driver Dayton White. The job is a success, and Jimmy makes it to his daughters pageant in time to hear her perform his favorite song, "Take Me Home, Country Roads." Jimmy then abandons the money and anonymously alerts the police so they can retrieve it. FBI agent Sarah Grayson investigates the heist. Due to the unwillingness of the prison authorities to disclose the extent of the riot, the refuting of Chilblains eyewitness account by White (disgruntled because he crashed during the race because he drank some of Chilblains energy drink as part of the sponsorship deal), and the speedway administrations satisfaction with their insurance settlement, the case is closed after six months. Joe is released and returns to his old home to find a bag of money buried by a tree in his yard. Its then revealed that during the heist, Jimmy purposely separated several bags of money from the rest, and sent them to the local dump with the regular trash. The rest he returned, to discourage any potential investigations. Jimmy also retrieved Clydes prosthetic hand from the vacuum tube. Now working in a hardware store and having bought a house near his daughter and ex-wifes home, Jimmy happily reunites with his family at Clydes bar, where they and the rest of the gang share drinks. Sylvia also arrives and shares a kiss with Jimmy. Clyde does not recognize one of the patrons, who turns out to be Grayson.
Logan Lucky
2017