Western intelligence services of the G8 track down Pakistani arms dealer Aamir Barkawi (Alon Moni Aboutboul) as the mastermind behind several terrorist attacks, and authorize an American drone strike on Barkawis compound, apparently killing Barkawi and his family. Two years later, UK Prime Minister James Wilson suddenly dies, and arrangements are made for the Western world leaders to attend his funeral in London. Secret Service Director Lynne Jacobs (Angela Bassett) assigns agent Mike Banning (Gerard Butler), a close friend of U.S. President Benjamin Asher (Aaron Eckhart), to lead Ashers security detail while overseas, even though Bannings wife Leah (Radha Mitchell) is due to give birth to their child in a few weeks. The entourage arrives via Air Force One at Stansted Airport, and Banning pushes their arrival at the Somerset House in London via Marine One earlier. As Ashers Presidential State Car arrives at St Pauls Cathedral, a series of coordinated attacks by terrorists disguised as Metropolitan Police, the Queens Guardsmen, and other first responders erupts, killing the other Western leaders, damaging or destroying major landmarks and generating mass panic. Ashers early arrival has thrown the attack on him at St. Pauls off-guard, and Banning is able to rescue Asher and Jacobs and rushes them back to Marine One. As the helicopter and its escorts takes off, terrorists fire Stinger missiles at them, destroying the escorts and forcing the damaged helicopter to crash-land in Hyde Park. Banning and Asher suffer only minor wounds, but Jacobs is fatally injured, and she makes Banning promise to stay alive for his unborn child and get back at whomever did this. Banning quickly escorts Asher into the London Underground as the citys power is lost and people take shelter in their homes. In Washington, D.C., U.S. Vice President Allan Trumbull (Morgan Freeman) works with the British authorities to investigate the incident while trying to track down the President. Trumbull receives a call from Barkawi, still alive after all and operating out of Yemen. The man takes responsibility for the attacks, coordinated by his son Kamran (Waleed Zuaiter). Barkawi purposely had Wilson poisoned to lure the Western leaders to London to attack them. Barkawi knows Asher is still alive, and promises that if Kamran captures him, he will broadcast the execution of the President on the Internet. Trumbull orders his intelligence staff to locate Barkawis known operatives to find any connection to the attack, while British authorities have all first responders stand down, so that any left in the open can be identified as terrorists. After leaving a sign to be picked up by satellite tracking, Banning leads Asher to an MI6 safe-house, where Jacqueline "Jax" Marshall (Charlotte Riley) briefs them on what their intelligence has learned. Marshall receives a voice message from Trumbull that confirms they saw Bannings sign and that an extraction team is en route. Security monitors show the approach of a Delta Force team, but Banning suspects they have arrived far too soon and may be more terrorists. He covers and fights off the terrorists before Asher and Banning drive away, but their car is struck by a truck driven by terrorists, allowing them to kidnap Asher. Banning is rescued by the extraction team, a combined Delta Force/S.A.S. squad. They also suspect that there is a mole in the British government. Trumbulls staff have identified a building in London owned by one of Barkawis companies, which still appears to be drawing massive amounts of power despite supposedly being under construction and unoccupied, and suspect it is Kamrans headquarters. Banning joins the extraction team to infiltrate the building and stop Kamran before he can kill Asher. Banning and Asher escape just before the building is destroyed by the Delta Force/SAS squad, killing Kamran and the remaining terrorists. Marshall has worked with British authorities to restore Londons security system and, discovering that MI5 Intelligence Chief John Lancaster (Patrick Kennedy) aided in Barkawis attack, she kills him. Meanwhile, Trumbull contacts Barkawi to tell him that his plan failed, and then to look outside, moments before the building is destroyed by another drone strike, killing him. Two weeks after the attack on London, Banning is home spending time with Leah and their newborn child, named Lynne after his deceased boss. He sits in front of his laptop and contemplates sending his letter of resignation. On TV, Trumbull speaks regarding the recent events, leaving an inspiring message that the U.S. will prevail. This convinces Banning to delete the letter.
London Has Fallen
2016