Devereaux Burke gets a personal request from former President Andrew Jackson to facilitate the annexation of Texas into the United States. Opposition to annexation is gaining favor because it is mistakenly believed that Texas pioneer Sam Houston opposes statehood. The opposition leader is wealthy rancher Thomas Craden, but when Craden is ambushed by Comanches, it is Dev who comes to his rescue. Dev and Craden travel to Austin where they meet Martha Ronda, who runs the local newspaper. Craden does not know Dev supports annexation when he invites Dev to a dinner he planned that night for a number of senators at his home. When the senators wont all agree to vote against annexation, Craden refuses them permission to leave. Dev is allowed to leave but soon returns with a group of armed men to rescue the senators and reveal his support for annexation. The senators inform Dev that Sam Houston is on the other side of the Pecos river negotiating a peace treaty with the Apache. Dev leaves to find Houston but is followed by Craden. Dev and Craden find Houston with the Apache. Dev gets a signed letter from Houston telling of his actual position, but the ink smears when he falls into a river while fleeing from Cradens men. Dev has difficulty persuading Martha that he is telling the truth, but after confirming the facts with Craden, she publishes the correct story about Houstons position. When the people of Austin are told the truth of Houstons position they rally in support of annexation. Craden resorts to force to stop the Texas Congress from voting on annexation. Dev is called on to organize the defense of the Texas Congress. Craden attacks the fort-like congress building with several dozens of armed men on horseback. Dev leads the defenders as they repulse two waves of attack but the battle begins to turn against them during the third wave of attack. Houston arrives with the Apache just in time to end the battle before any senators are killed. Dev and Craden fight each other hand-to-hand until Dev knocks out Craden. Annexation succeeds, Craden concedes, Dev wins Martha over and saves the day.
Lone Star (1952 film)
1952