On a hillside, Bugs is singing "A Rainy Night in Rio." In a nearby house, a burly, blond-haired opera singer named Giovanni Jones rehearses "Largo al Factotum" from The Barber of Seville. Overhearing Bugs, he absent-mindedly finds himself singing along in operatic style. Realizing that he accidentally switched genres, Giovanni loses his temper over his rehearsal being interrupted in this manner. He reacts by grabbing the banjo from Bugs, popping the strings, then splitting the instrument in two. He crushes the neck then slams the banjo body over Bugs head. ("Music-hater," Bugs opines.) As Giovanni practices again, he hears Bugs singing a variation on "My Gal is a High-Born Lady". He tries to ignore Bugs, but again ends up singing and dancing along. Furious again, he retaliates by crushing the harp with Bugs trapped between the strings ("Hmm, also a rabbit-hater — oh, well," Bugs counters.) As Giovanni tries to sing once more, the sound of a tuba seems to come out of his mouth. The sound is coming from Bugs playing "When Yuba Plays the Rhumba on the Tuba". Though Bugs ducks into his hole after seeing Giovanni approach, the singer pulls Bugs out through the tuba, ties his ears to a tree branch and pulls him down so that he bounces repeatedly beneath the branch, bonking his head several times. As Giovanni walks away, Bugs angrily decides its time for payback, and says his famous line: "Of course you know, this means war!" Bugs exacts his revenge against Giovanni through a series of public humiliations during his concert (seemingly at the Hollywood Bowl). First, Bugs causes roof of the concert hall to vibrate, disrupting the singers vocals. Then he hammers it so the violent shuddering causes Giovanni to bounce across the stage, until he falls off and becomes trapped in the orchestras tuba. Bugs rescues him and takes him backstage. Next, Bugs sprays Giovannis throat with "liquid alum" which shrinks his head, as well as his voice, as he sings the "Figaro" part. Bugs dresses up as a teenage bobby soxer and asks Giovanni for an autograph ("Frankie and Perry just arent in it!") —except the pen is a stick of dynamite. After the off-screen explosion, Giovanni steps out to the stage with a singed face and evening wear torn to shreds. He takes a couple of bows and then collapses. During the concerts final act, Bugs poses as the highly respected Leopold Stokowski, prompting Giovanni, the musicians, and conductor to acknowledge him with repeated astonished cries of "Leopold!", as Bugs takes over the conducting duties. Destroying the baton and using his hands instead (as did the real Leopold), Bugs makes Giovanni sing different notes, including a very low D. Bugs, after accepting brief applause (which is instantly stopped when he raises his hand), cracks his knuckles, winds up his fists, and conducts Giovanni into holding a singular high G note until Giovanni can hardly endure the strain. Giovannis face turns red, purple, blue, and green as he squirms and as his formal wear unravels. Bugs leaves his glove hovering in the air and steps outside to order a pair of earmuffs, which are delivered instantly after Bugs places the order in the mailbox. Bugs returns to the stage to find Giovanni has obeyed the glove and is still singing the high note, now thrashing about on the floor banging his fists, his face turning white, grey, and yellow. Finally, the top of the concert halls shell shatters and tumbles down on top of Giovanni. As the audience applauds Bugs, a roughed-up Giovanni (whose hair is now reddish) appears out of the rubble to take a bow. Noticing one last piece of the amphitheater balanced on a steel beam above Giovanni, Bugs cues the singer to close out his performance with an encore of the high note. This causes the piece to falls and crush him, off camera. Satisfied with his victory, Bugs removes his wig and ends the show by taking out another banjo and playing the Vaudeville-era four-note riff, "Good Evening Friends".
Long-Haired Hare
1949