The movie picks up with the now married Mollie (Kristie Alley) and James (John Travolta) having sex and Mikey (voice of Bruce Willis) getting scared. Mollie and James tell Mikey that hes got to be potty trained. Mollie discovers shes pregnant again (this time a girl) and James is working diligently. Mikey learns that with his little sister, Julie, on the way, he has to be a responsible big brother. When Julie is about to be born, her umbilical cord gets caught around her neck, putting her in distress. She is born through a c-section and is taken to the nursery area for observation. When Julie meets Mikey, she is unimpressed. Mikey, on the other hand, quickly begins to resent his sister when his dreams of being a responsible big brother dont match the reality. Meanwhile, Mollies slacker right-wing brother, Stuart, comes to stay, to whom James takes an immediate dislike. This, combined with James being pressured into taking a demanding piloting job arranged by Mollies parents and his belief that Mollie is too protective of Mikey, causes several arguments between the pair which eventually lead to James leaving. Mikey is upset about this and, believing he has left because of Julie, tears up one of his sisters stuffed animals. James occasionally hangs out with his kids (including scamming their way into a movie theater) and has fun with them. Following a burglary, Mollies best friend Rona moves in with her and she soon starts dating Stuart. Following the death of her beloved stuffed penguin (whom she named Herbie), Julie decides to learn to walk and leave. Later, Julie manages to walk to the sofa without support. Mollie sees this and is initially excited but then saddened that James isnt there to share the moment. As he watches Julie sleep one night, Mikey realizes how badly hes treated her and resolves to change his ways. Mollie decides to win James back and dresses sexily for him, but he isnt interested. As the two bicker, Mikey uses the toilet for the first time and calls his parents, who are immensely proud of him and share a tender moment. One night as James prepares to fly, Mollie watches the news and learns that storms are all around the area. She goes to get James before he takes off, leaving Stuart with Mikey and Julie. She catches him and tries to persuade him not to take off, just as the control tower cancel the flight. The two then makes up. Meanwhile, a burglar (presumably the same one who also robbed Rona) breaks in and runs when Stuart comes in with his unloaded gun. Stuart pursues him having forgotten about the kids and completely oblivious to the fact that he left paper on a hot stove which quickly causes a fire to start. Mikey doesnt panic and takes charge, pushing Julie out of the apartment to safety. Stuart and the burglar run into James who subdues the thief. Mollie and James soon find out the kids were left alone and spot the fire in the apartment, only for Mikey and Julie to emerge from the elevator as the two prepare to head in to save them. James then puts out the fire before it can cause too much damage. The next day, James, Mollie, Stuart, Rona, and Mollies parents attend a barbecue. There, Julie asks Mikey why he saved her when theyre always fighting. Mikey tells her that for as much as they get on each others nerves, theyre the kids and should stick together since the grown-ups never make any sense to them. The two then walk off hand-in-hand.
Look Who's Talking Too
1990