In New York, Edgar Bergen does his last radio performance of the season, a doctors sketch with his puppet, Charlie McCarthy and his assistant, Julie Patterson (Lucille Ball). After the performance Bergen hosts an engagement party for Julie and his business partner, Jerry Wood. The next day, Bergen flies his new plane and he and Charlie are set for their summer vacation. En route, Bergen gets lost and lands in Wistful Vista, home of Fibber McGee and Molly. Bergens almost crash landing interrupts a meeting with Wistful Vistas Chamber of Commerce. Fibber, president, has just proposed the selling of the towns airstrip to Hilary Horton, owner of the Horton Aircraft Factory. The Commerce and townspeople thought Bergens plane was carrying Horton. Bergen and Charlie are welcomed to the town and Fibber and Molly invite them to stay at their home. Learning of Fibbers plans, Bergen offers to convince Hilary, his friend, to build his factory at Wistful Vista. Throckmorton P. Gildersleeve (Harold Peary), secretly working for Ironton Realty, a rival company wanting to purchase Hortons factory, gets a scoop of Fibber and Bergens plans. He goes to Sam Cudahy, owner of Ironton Realty, planning to back out of Cudahys schemes. Threatened by blackmail, Gildersleeve tricks Fibber into paying for an elaborate luncheon to honor their guest. Gildersleeves trickery continues when he meets Charlie McCarthy, who is fed up staying at Wistful Vista and wants to find a way to leave town. Gildersleeve suggests that Charlie sends a fake telegram to Bergen saying that his former assistant, Julie Patterson, is ill. Charlie does and on the day Bergen is to fly Hilary Horton to Wistful Vista, he receives the telegram, thus suddenly changing his plans. Bergen arrives back in New York, discovering Julie is well. He then quickly returns to Wistful Vista with a protesting Julie in tow. Bergens business partner, Jerry, with his former fiancée and Julies replacement, Marge, search for Julie. Meanwhile, Fibber, humiliated, resigned from the Chamber of Commerce and has been notified that his house is in foreclosure and the airstrip has been purchased by Cudahy. Charlie confesses to Julie that Gildersleeve suggested sending the fake telegram. Julie then devises a scheme to foil Cudahy into investing in some worthless land belonging to Fibber and for Gildersleeve to trade his land for the airstrip. Bergen successfully convinces Hilary to fly into Wistful Vista. Meanwhile, Jerry and Marge, still searching for Julie, have decided that they are still in love and get married. Back at the McGees, Molly discovers that Julie is in love with Bergen and advises her to "sabotage" him into marriage. Everyone drives to the airstrip to meet Horton. As Fibber and Molly wait in Bergens plane, he and Julie greet Jerry and Marge, who have just driven into town. When Fibber accidentally takes off, Julie and Bergen follow in another plane. Hortons plane is also coming and Fibber nearly crashes into him. Bergen climbs aboard the plane, and safely lands Fibber and Molly. After returning to the McGee house, Jerry and Marge announce their marriage. At that moment, Horton arrives and informs Bergen that he owns a controlling interest in the Horton company and can build a factory wherever he desires. So, with Fibbers good name restored, Julie embraces Bergen.
Look Who's Laughing
1941