Ann Harper Berry (Loretta Young), a young socialite, receives an inheritance of one million dollars from her deceased grandmother. The will stipulates, however, that she will only receive the money after she has been married to someone who meets with the approval of her two prudish aunts Sarah (Louise Fazenda) and Katherine (Ethel Wales) Harper. The will also stipulates that everyone will lose their inheritance if a scandal involving Ann occurs before she is married. In the case of a scandal, the entire estate will be donated to an organization for the welfare of cats and dogs. Ann, who is furious at being denied the right to marry who she pleases, decides to create a scandal. She advertises in the paper for an unscrupulous man to compromise her. Gilly Hayden (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr). answers the ad and arrives at Anns apartment. In order to make the affair as scandalous as possible, Anns maid asks Fairbanks to remove his clothing. Before the newspaper men arrive, Anns two aunts show up and attempt to force Gilly to marry their niece. Gilly, not wanting to force Ann into marriage, jumps out the window with nothing on but a womans robe. By this time, Ann and Gilly, though they had only spent a short time together, have already fallen in love. Lint Harper (Raymond Keane), Gillys roommate, becomes interested when Gilly tells him what happened with Ann. He decides to try to get Ann to marry him in order to get a part of her fortune. He takes her to a nightclub called the Circus Cafe. While there Ann meets Gilly and her two aunts, who are being escorted by two gigolos (two other roommates of Gilly), who have come to spy on their niece. The aunts become drunk through the machinations of the gigolos and when the club is raided they manage to escape with their aid. Ann blackmails her aunts into consenting to her marriage with Gilly, threatening to expose their scandalous behaviour at the nightclub if they dont. This leaves the couple free to pursue their romance.
Loose Ankles
1930