A film is found that features young German officer Kirk von Metz (Robert Prosky) sleeping with Adolf Hitler. Years later, von Metz is running for chancellor of West Germany and arranges for the murder of anyone who has seen the film. The killings take place in the Washington D.C. area, and Metropolitan Police officers MacArthur Stern (Gene Hackman) and Ellis Fielding (Dan Aykroyd) are sent to investigate the crimes. Ellis suffers from a multiple personality disorder, which is aggravated when he is confronted with violence. This results in several episodes where he blacks out and assumes the personalities of popular culture characters, including Popeye, Captain Kirk and the Road Runner. "Mac," as hes called, and Ellis attempt to track down the film through pornographer Harry "The Hippo" Gutterman (Dom DeLuise), who informs them that to do so they need to get to New York City. They decide to take a train, but first must evade a team of FBI agents led by Bob Smiley (Ronny Cox), whose orders are to prevent any embarrassment to von Metz by intercepting the film before it reaches the public domain. They all meet up at Washingtons Union Station, where Mac and Ellis trick Smiley and his team into boarding the New York-bound train they originally intended to take, while they jump off and hop onto one on the opposite track bound for Cleveland instead. While on board that train, Mac notices another undercover team that has been trailing them, which, as it turns out, is led by Rebecca "Riva" Lowengrin (Nancy Travis), a Mossad agent assigned to the Embassy of Israel in Washington, D.C.. After surviving a helicopter attack on the train by Nazi sympathizers, Mac, Ellis and Gutterman jump off a bridge into a river and eventually make their way to New York. Mac finds the film in a locker on one of the upper levels of Grand Central Station and, during an exchange of gunfire with more Nazis, throws it to Riva, who has just arrived on the Main Concourse below. It is screened that same evening during a speech that von Metz delivers. Mac, Ellis and Gutterman all suffer gunshot wounds and, as the movie ends, are seen recuperating in the same hospital. Mac jokes to Ellis that he is converting to Judaism that evening in order to move to Israel the next day to join the Mossad, but is uncomfortable about undergoing circumcision.
Loose Cannons (1990 film)
1990