In the Mojave Desert in 1982, a man named Nix has gathered a cult in an isolated house, where he plans to sacrifice a young girl that he has kidnapped. Nix calls himself "The Puritan" and has the ability to use real magic. A group of former cult members, including Swann and Quaid, arrive to stop him. After the initial confrontation with the cultists, Nixs assistant, Butterfield, escapes, and Swann is attacked magically by Nix. The kidnapped girl shoots Nix through the heart with Swanns gun. Swann fastens an ironwork mask over Nixs head, who appears to die, and declares that they will bury Nix so deep that no one will ever find him. Thirteen years later, New York City private detective Harry DAmour is investigating a case in Los Angeles. DAmour has a long-standing interest in the occult, and has some renown from his involvement with a recent exorcism. During the investigation, DAmour discovers a fortune teller shop owned by Quaid, where he is relentlessly attacked by a man with unusual strength. DAmour finds Quaid suffering from multiple stab wounds. As he dies, Quaid warns DAmour that “The Puritan” is coming. Swann, now a famous stage illusionist, lives in a Beverly Hills mansion with his wife, Dorothea. When informed that Nixs followers have murdered Quaid, Dorothea suggests they hire DAmour to investigate the murder. DAmour agrees, and she invites him to Swanns magic show. Swann performs a new death-defying illusion which goes wrong, and he is killed on stage. DAmour goes to The Magic Castle, where he hears Nix being described as a legend, and that Nix was believed to have taught Swann. After getting into the Repository, a special room in the Magic Castle that supposedly contains every magic secret known to man, he discovers that Swanns "illusions" involved real magic. Later, at Swanns house, Dorothea reveals that she was the girl that Nix kidnapped, and that she married Swann because of a sense of obligation. Dorothea and DAmour make love; afterwards, DAmour is attacked by a man engulfed in fire. Suspecting a ruse, DAmour opens Swanns coffin and finds that the body inside is fake. Valentin, Swanns assistant, explains that he helped Swann fake his death. DAmour agrees to allow Valentin and Swanns ruse to continue. At the funeral, DAmour follows a suspicious looking man who turns out to be Swann, who, in jealousy, attacks DAmour with magic. DAmour convinces the emotionally hurt Swann to help him put an end to Nixs cult. Butterfield kidnaps Dorothea, using her as a hostage to force Valentin to recover Nixs body. After finding Nixs corpse, Butterfield stabs Valentin and takes the corpse back to the old house in the desert. There, his cultists have returned to witness Nixs resurrection and follow him once again. Butterfield removes the iron mask and Nix regains consciousness. Swann and DAmour, acting on information given by the dying Valentin, arrive. Swann attacks Butterfield and tells DAmour to rescue Dorothea. Nix, instructing his followers to prepare to receive his wisdom, opens a hole in the ground beneath him and Dorothea and turns the earth into quick sand that swallows the cultists, declaring that only Swann is worthy of receiving his knowledge. DAmour finds Nix and Dorothea, and as DAmour steps onto the hardened quicksand, Nix opens his eyes, says "You are not Swann!. . . I know what you want!" (referencing the earlier liaison between DAmour and Dorthea). Nix then drops her into the hole; DAmour rescues her as Swann enters the room. As they flee, DAmour and Dorothea are attacked by Butterfield, whom DAmour kills. Swann agrees to act as Nixs disciple, even answering "Yes" to Nix asserting that Swann would be killed by Nix after they destroyed the world. But when Swann admits to caring for Dorthea, Nix then attacks with magic and breaks some of Swanns bones and apparently kills him by destroying his brain. Dorothea finds DAmours gun and shoots Nix in his third eye after DAmour points to the center of his forehead. Nix then begins to transform into a hideous creature. Swann turns out not to be dead and uses his last life energy and magic to help DAmour deliver a final blow to Nix, who falls into the hole, which is shown to have no bottom. Dorothea holds Swann in her arms as he succumbs to his injuries. Dorothea and DAmour escape the house and walk into the desert.
Lord of Illusions
1995