An aircraft carrying 24 young American military school cadet boys returning home crash lands into the sea near a remote, uninhabited, jungle island in the Pacific Ocean. The pilot of the plane Captain Benson (Michael Greene), the only adult survivor, is seriously injured and delirious. All of the survivors arrive on the island. During the night, Simon, the most independent cadet, finds a river and notifies the other boys, to which they all drink out of it and explore the island afterwards. Meanwhile, on the beach, an overweight cadet with glasses who is only known by his nickname "Piggy", finds a seashell and takes it to the grouped cadets, who adopt it to signal the right to speak and be heard by the group. The senior cadet, and one of the elder boys, Cadet Colonel Ralph, organizes a meeting to discuss surviving their predicament. Ralph and another of the older boys, Jack, emerge dominant, and an impromptu election is held to determine an official leader for the group. Ralph is declared the winner. They start a fire using Piggys glasses to try and alert any passing craft. Things go smoothly for a while, but tensions soon begin to grow between Ralph and Jack. One night, as they sleep, the delusional Captain Benson wanders away from the boys and into the jungle, eventually making his way to a cave deep inland. Jack brings all of his hunters to hunt in the jungle, leaving no one watching the fire. The fire goes out, preventing a passing helicopter from noticing them. Ralph blames Jack for failing to keep it going. During the ensuing fight, Jack, tired of listening to Ralph and Piggy, leaves and forms his own camp, taking many of the boys with him. As more and more boys defect to Jacks side, one of the younger boys, Larry, finds Captain Benson in the cave, mistakes him for a monster and stabs him, and then tells the other boys. Jack and his second-in-command Roger (Gary Rule) then go to the caves entrance and mistakes Captain Bensons dying groans for the sounds of a monster. One night, Jack and his savages steal a knife from Ralph so they can make more spears, but accidentally trample on Piggys glasses in the process, breaking one lens. Expecting to be rescued, Ralphs civilized leadership establishes a permanent signal-fire to alert passing ships of their presence on the island. Not expecting or wanting to be rescued, Jacks savage leadership adapts to circumstance; he establishes his camp as spear-bearing hunters who provide meat for both camps. They kill a Wild pig and leave its head as an offering to the "monster" that they believe is in the cave. Eventually, identical twins Sam and Eric (Andrew Taft and Edward Taft), two of Ralphs friends, leave him to join Jacks tribe, leaving Ralph with only Piggy and Simon left. Meanwhile, Simon finds the pigs head on the stick. He then uses a glow stick to explore the cave and discovers the corpse of Capt. Benson. Simon realizes Capt. Benson was what the boys thought was the monster and runs to the beach in an attempt to alert the boys of his discovery, but his waving of the glow stick frightens the other boys, who mistake him for the monster and stab him to death with their spears. The following morning, Ralph blames himself and Piggy for not stopping the hunters from killing Simon. Meanwhile, Jack tells his gang that the "monster" can come in any different form. After Piggys glasses are stolen by Jacks savages that night so they could make fire, Piggy and Ralph travel to Jacks camp at Castle Rock, attempting to call a meeting using the conch. Piggy insists that everyone be sensible and work together, but Jacks savages refuse to listen. As Piggy speaks, Roger pushes a boulder off a cliff which lands on and kills Piggy. Ralph swears revenge on Jack, and Jack takes it as a threat. With his hunters, Jack drives Ralph away by throwing rocks at him. Later that night, Ralph secretly returns to Castle Rock to visit Sam and Eric, who warn him that the hunters will chase after Ralph on Jacks orders to protect himself from Ralph. The following morning, Jack and his hunters begin setting the jungle on fire to force Ralph out of hiding and kill him. Just barely dodging the spreading fire and Jacks hunters, Ralph makes a desperate run to the sea. He falls onto the beach, where he encounters a U.S. Marine Corps officer who has just landed on the island after having seen the fire that engulfed much of the island. The officer then asks "What are you guys doing?" as Ralph breaks down in tears. All the hunters, especially Jack and Roger, are scared at what will happen to them for killing Simon and Piggy and their failed attempt to kill Ralph as more Marines show up.
Lord of the Flies (1990 film)
1990