Single mother Billy (Christina Hendricks) lives in a rapidly crumbling Detroit neighborhood with her two sons, Bones (Iain De Caestecker) and little Franky. Billy and Bones both dote on Franky but are fairly distant from each other. In his spare time, Bones salvages copper piping from abandoned houses in the neighborhood while trying to avoid a vicious local criminal named Bully (Matt Smith), who has wants all the copper piping for himself. One day, Bully catches Bones taking piping, which Bones abandons and flees. Later, Bones reclaims the piping from Bullys hiding place and manages to escape from Bullys sidekick, Face. Billy meets with a banker, Dave (Ben Mendelsohn), regarding a loan the previous bank manager talked her into so that she could stay in her house, which originally belonged to her grandmother. Since Billy is unemployed, she is unable to repay the bank and must find a way to pay for the house. After their meeting, Dave offers Billy a job, leaving out the details of what it is. A construction crew begins tearing down the vacant houses in the neighborhood. Along with Bones, Billy, and Franky, three of the few remaining residents are Rat (Saoirse Ronan), her grandmother (Barbara Steele), and her pet rat, Nick. Rats grandmother repeatedly watches her old wedding video out of grief for her husband, who died while constructing a dam. Bones discovers an old road that is overgrown and leads under a lake. While hanging out with Rat, Bones learns there is an abandoned town under the lake that was flooded when a reservoir was built. Rat says the only way to break the "curse" that is plaguing their neighborhood is to capture a "beast" from the underwater town and bring it to the surface. Daves job offer leads Billy to a cabaret downtown, driven there by a friendly taxi driver. She enters to see a show put on by the main performer, Cat (Eva Mendes). The appeal of the show is a realistically gory "murder" where Cat ostensibly gets stabbed multiple times and has her "blood" spray all over the delighted audience. Billy goes backstage and meets with Cat, who shows her where the real money is made: in the basement. Down there, women stand in locked plastic "shells" while men do whatever they want in their presence. Rat invites Bones out for "a night on the town." They go dancing at an abandoned high school and intimate they would leave town together if it ever came to that. Later, they go out to a gas station store and run into Bully and Face, whose lips were cut off by Bully after he let Bones get away. Bones hides from Bully, and to protect Bones, Rat accepts Bullys offer to give her a ride home. Bully walks Rat to her front door and asks her if he can see her pet rat, Nick. He then grabs Nick and brutally kills him in front of her. Billy has had to take Franky to work with her since Bones was out with Rat. For her performance, Billy makes it look like shes cutting off her face, which excites the audience. She later sits with Dave, who hosts the place and performs a song. He takes Billy and Franky home and makes a pass at Billy, but stops when he sees Bones standing outside the car. Bones drops Billy off at work one night and sees what she has been doing to make money to keep the house. Unable to help their financial situation anymore by stealing copper piping, Bones decides he is going to break the aforementioned "curse." He leaves Franky with Rat and goes into the river to cut the head off a dinosaur statue in an old childrens park. Meanwhile, Face enters Rats house and sets it on fire. He dies in the flames as Rat goes to rescue her grandmother, but she is unable to rouse her from her catatonia and leaves with Franky. Having succeeded in cutting off the dinosaurs head, Bones comes ashore to find his car has been set on fire. Bully tries to run Bones over with his car, but at the last moment, Bones steps out of the way and hurls the dinosaur head at Bullys windshield, causing him to crash against the burning car. Bully is thrown from his car, ends up stuck head first in the lake, and drowns. At work, Billy is sealed in a "shell" while Dave performs a sexual dance routine around her. Despite having a button that locks the shell from the inside, Dave has a remote that releases the lock. Billy finally steps out of the chamber and stabs Dave in the ear, leaving him to bleed out. Billy returns to find her sons and Rat sitting on the steps of their house while Rats home continues to burn. With the help of the taxi driver, the four of them run away and leave the neighborhood behind them.
Lost River (film)
2015