In 1922, Scott Mason Carter (Mel Ferrer) graduates from Chase Medical School in Chicago and promptly marries Marcia (Beatrice Pearson). Both are light-skinned enough to be mistaken for whites. Scott has found an internship for himself, but his fellow graduate, the dark-skinned Jesse Pridham (Ray Saunders), wonders if he will have to work as a Pullman porter until there is an opening in a black hospital. When Scott appears for work in Georgia, the black hospital director tells him that the board of directors has decided to give preference to Southern applicants and rescinds the job offer. Marcia insists her husband continue searching for another medical job. In the meantime, they live in Boston with Marcias parents, who have successfully been passing as white. Her father and some of their black friends suggest they do the same. Instead, Scott continues to apply as a Negro and is repeatedly rejected. Scott finally yields, quits his job making shoes, and masquerades as white for a one-year internship in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. There, Scott responds to an emergency. At an isolated lighthouse, he has to operate immediately on a sport fisherman who is bleeding to death from a penetrating ulcer. His patient turns out to be Dr. Walter Bracket (Morton Stevens), the well-known director of a local clinic. Impressed, Dr. Bracket offers Scott a position as town doctor in Keenham, a fictionalized version of Keene, New Hampshire), where he will replace Brackets recently deceased father. Scott declines the offer, explaining that he is a Negro. Dr. Bracket, though he admits he would not have made the offer had he known, recommends Scott take the job without revealing his race. With his wife pregnant, Scott reluctantly agrees. Scott and Marcia worry how their child will appear at birth and are relieved that he appears as white as they do. When the local rector and his wife welcome Scott and Marcia to Keenham, Marcia tells them her boy will be named after Scotts mentor, Dr. Charles Howard. The rector tells Marcia he once met a doctor by that name, but that was a black man, so he suggests she means a different Dr. Howard. Scott slowly earns the trust and respect of the residents. By 1942, when the United States enters World War II, the Carters are pillars of the community. Their son, Howard, attends the University of New Hampshire, while daughter Shelly (Susan Douglas Rubeš) is in high school. The Carters have managed to keep their secret from the community, as well as from their own children. Scott goes to Boston once a week to work at the Charles Howard Clinic, which Jesse Pridham and he established for patients of all races. Howard invites a black classmate, Arthur Cooper (William Greaves), to visit his family in Keenham. Shelly worries aloud what her friends will think about a "coon" staying in their home. Scott sternly orders her never to use that word again. When Arthur goes to a party with Howard, some guests make bigoted remarks behind his back. Scott and Howard enlist in the Navy, but after Scotts background is investigated, his commission as a lieutenant commander is suddenly revoked for "failure to meet physical conditions". The only position in the Navy for blacks is as a steward. The Carters have no choice but to reveal their secret to their children. Howard breaks up with his white girlfriend and disappears. He roams the streets of Harlem and rents a room there. When Shellys boyfriend Andy asks her what she is going to do about the "awful rumor" circulating about her family, Shelly confesses that it is true. Her boyfriend asks her to the school dance anyway, but she rejects the invitation. In Harlem, Howard investigates screams coming from a tenement building and finds two black men fighting. When one is knocked down and the other pulls out a gun, Howard intervenes. The gun goes off and the gunman flees, but Howard is taken into custody. To a sympathetic black police lieutenant (Canada Lee), Howard explains, "I came here to find out what its like to be a Negro." Arthur Cooper collects his friend from the police station. Howard goes to his fathers clinic. Scott tells him: "I brought you up as white. Theres no reason why you shouldnt continue to live that way." Howard and his father return to Keene. When they attend their regular Sunday church service, the minister preaches a sermon of tolerance, then notes that the Navy has just ended its racist policy. The congregation sings a hymn using the words of New England poet James Russell Lowell: "Once to evry man and nation/Comes the moment to decide,/In the strife of truth with falsehood/For the good or evil side." The narrator announces that Scott Carter remains the doctor for a small New Hampshire town.
Lost Boundaries
1949