During the opening credits, two bookies are separately ambushed and murdered by their unseen killers; elsewhere, a young man is killed by a sniper. In a bus terminal, a young man is approached by Mr. Goodkat, who tells him the story of a man named Max and the Kansas City Shuffle: two decades earlier, Max borrowed a large sum of money from the mob to bet on a fixed horse race; however the intended winner fell and died, and the mob arranged for Max, his wife, and his young son Henry, to be brutally killed as an example to others gambling with mob money. The story concludes by explaining the "Kansas City Shuffle" - a trick by which a person is persuaded to place their attention in one place, while the real threat is elsewhere - and abruptly Goodkat kills the young man, taking his body away. In New York City, an un-named young man, who later uses the false name Slevin Kelevra, is staying in his friend Nick Fishers apartment, discussing Nicks unexpected disappearance with neighbor Lindsey. He is kidnapped and taken to meet "The Boss", a crime lord. Mistaking Slevin for Nick, Slevin is told to repay a large gambling debt owed by Nick, or alternatively, to kill the son of another crime lord, known as "The Rabbi". The Boss and The Rabbi have been bitter enemies for 20 years, each never venturing outside their heavily fortified apartment for fear of assassination. The Boss believes that The Rabbi was behind his sons murder (seen in the intro), and wants The Rabbis son, Yitzchak "The Fairy", killed in revenge. On leaving, Slevin is almost immediately kidnapped a second time, this time being taken to The Rabbi. Brushing aside Slevins protests, The Rabbi gives Slevin a short time to repay a large gambling debt owed by Fisher to him, as well. The mysterious Mr. Goodkat is also somehow involved: he is shown telling The Boss that he will let Slevin kill Yitzchak, and then kill Slevin himself, arranging matters to look like a killing by a jealous partner, and also shown telling The Rabbi that he (Goodkat) has been hired by The Boss to kill The Rabbis son, and offering to betray The Boss for a large sum of money and "a favor": The Rabbi is to bring him Nick Fisher. Slevin meets Yitzchak and they agree to a date at Yitzchaks apartment. Slevin is approached by Detective Brikowski, who is curious about the unknown stranger who appears to be involved in both crime rings. Slevin says little, but offers the name "Slevin Kelevra" under coercion. The next morning, Slevin arrives at Yitzchaks apartment and fatally shoots him, only for Goodkat to appear. Rather than shoot Slevin, he shoots Yitzchak, who was attempting to retrieve a gun. Slevin fetches a bag containing a body and some explosives while Goodkat uses a panic button to summon and kill Yitzchaks bodyguards. The body is the man killed in the bus terminal, now revealed to be Nick Fisher, and Slevins watch is put on the body, faking Slevins death to the police in the ensuing fire as the two leave. With Yitzchak dead, Goodkat enters The Boss apartment stronghold where he kills the bodyguards and other staff, leaving him alone with The Boss, whom he takes captive. Meanwhile Slevin offers The Rabbi a briefcase containing "all he owes" and as The Rabbi looks down, he uses a baton and renders The Rabbi unconscious. Both crime bosses awake to find they are tied to chairs in The Boss penthouse. Slevin asks them if they remember a race that took place many years ago, and they gradually recognize him as the former Henry, the son of the murdered Max and his wife, believed to have been killed by Mr Goodkat over 20 years previously. In flashbacks the untold story is revealed. When Max and his wife were killed, Mr Goodkat took Henry to safety and secretly raised him, instead of killing him. Slevin and Goodkat had planned the attack over many years, and concluded that the easiest way to reach two such protected crime lords was to create a situation where the bosses summoned Slevin themselves. Goodkat and Slevin killed bookies on both sides, stealing their ledgers to identify a gambler who was heavily in debt to both mobsters - Nick Fisher. Slevin then shot The Boss son. The Boss, interpreting the killing of his bookie and then his son as The Rabbis actions, summoned for revenge the renowned Mr Goodkat - who gave as a condition, that he wanted The Boss to bring him Nick Fisher. Goodkat then told The Rabbi of the plot on Yitchaks life, and offered to betray The Boss - again with the condition that The Rabbi find him Nick Fisher. With Fisher dead/vanished and Slevin living in his apartment, both bosses had brought Slevin to their apartments themselves. This was the "shuffle" described by Goodkat in the opening scene - being convincingly misled about the threat they faced, they had become exposed to an attack from an unforeseen direction. Slevin and Goodkat became expected visitors to both of their apartments, making it possible to take them captive. Slevin, his story told, suffocates them both by taping plastic bags over their heads, the same death they gave his father. Since Lindsey earlier photographed Goodkat for Slevin, Goodkat shoots her to protect his identity. Finally Slevin kills Brikowski - who had killed Slevins mother when his own gambling debts were called in by the mobsters, while the pseudonym "Slevin Kelevra" is explained: "Lucky Number Slevin" was the horse his father had bet on, and "Kelevra" is Hebrew for "bad dog," mirroring Goodkats name. At the bus terminal, Slevin is met by Lindsey, and it is revealed that Slevin had helped fake her death. Goodkat appears, aware of the trickery. Since Goodkat spared Slevin as a boy, he sympathizes and agrees to let her live. The film closes with a flashback to Goodkat deciding not to kill Henry and saying that they will both be away from home for "a long time". "Kansas City Shuffle" by Bennie Moten (performed by J. Ralph) starts playing on the radio as they drive away.
Lucky Number Slevin
2006