Gwen Taylor (Gail Patrick) is a famous Hollywood film star and about to become more famous. On her managers advice, she has concealed from the press the fact that shes a widow with a fouteen year old daughter, Gloria (Deanna Durbin). Gloria lives in a girls-only boarding school in Switzerland. Gloria never sees her Mother and never knew her Father, who died when she was just a baby; he was a navy pilot during wartime. She has invented a fictitious father, from who she receives letters, which she writes herself. But the other girls are getting curious and Gloria decides to kid them that hes about to visit her. Felice (Helen Parrish), another girl at the school, is suspicious and tries to prove that her father doesnt exist. The girls often meet the boys from a nearby boarding school. One of them, Tommy, (Jackie Moran), has a crush on her, and she likes him as well. At a church service, Gloria sings, "Ave Maria (Bach/Gounod)" with a boys choir. Gloria needs to quickly find someone to act as her father for a day. She goes to the train station to meet her "father" and the man she picks at random is Richard Todd (Herbert Marshall), an English composer on holiday, accompanied by Tripps (Arthur Treacher), his valet/secretary. Amused at her presumption, he decides to play along, and comes to her school, acting like he really is her father. Gloria discovers that her mother will be visiting Paris and that Richard is also planning to visit Paris on business. She stows away on a train and manages to persuade Richard to pay her fare. In Paris, Richard discovers who Glorias mother is and decides that its about time for a reunion between her and Gloria. At a press conference, Gwen admits to having a fourteen-year-old daughter. Mother and daughter are tearfully reunited and Gwen is grateful to Richard for bringing Gloria back to her. A budding romance between Gwen and Richard is now obvious and the movie ends with Gloria singing, "A Serenade to the Stars" while the girls from her school, her mother and Richard sit happily together.
Mad About Music
1938