A young and kind peasant boy named Ma Liang helped a rich man to tend cattle. He liked drawing and drew pictures everywhere and had the greatest dream to be an artist. He works very hard to achieve this dream even though he doesnt own a paintbrush. As Ma Liang gets ready for bed one night, he looks at all his drawings. Just as he was about to doze of, an elderly wizard-magician appears to him and says that he has earned a brush. He tells Ma Liang to use this brush wisely because it has great power. Before Ma Liang can thank him, the magician vanished. To test the power, Ma Liang uses the brush to paint a rooster. When he paint the last feather, the rooster comes to life and flies off. Ma Liang realizes the power of the brush and remembers the words of the old wizard. He promises to use the brush wisely and help other people. From that day on, he used the paintbrush whenever people needed help. When he saw that people had no water to use in the fields, he drew a river and the river came to life. People could bring water from the river to the field and save a lot of time and energy. When he saw it was difficult for people to till lands, he drew cows and water buffalos, both of which came to life. People could use the animals to till lands very easily. So when he saw the peoples troubles, he would use his magic paintbrush to help. Then many people knew about the magic paintbrush, one of which was a powerful mandarin, who pays a visit to Ma Liang and invites him to his home. The mandarin was a selfish and arrogant bad man who had an idea to steal the paint brush from the boy. He knew that he could make a lot of money by turning things to life and keeping them. The mandarin commands Ma Liang to paint a pile of silver and gold coins for him but the latter refuses due to his promise to the magician to use he brush wisely. The mandarin orders him imprisoned in a dungeon. Ma Liang finds out that the other men in the dungeon were innocent and were unjustly imprisoned because the mandarin wanted to seize their lands. That night, after the prison guards and their captain were asleep, Ma Liang uses his magic brush to paint a door which later opens, allowing him and the other innocent people to escape silently. The guards awaken only to fail as Ma Liang painted a horse to escape quickly. Ma Liang continues to use his magic brush to help people. He paints toys for children, paints a river and water wheel to irrigate farms, and more useful tools to ease peoples work. The mandarin finds Ma Lien and takes away his brush. After ordering that Ma Liang be imprisoned once more, he invites a lot of his friends to come to his home and shows them the magic paintbrush. He drew a lot of pictures, but none of them became real. The mandarin then orders the court painter to paint a tree with leaves of gold. But when he tries to shake the tree, he only bumped his head since the tree was nothing but a painting on the wall. The mandarin angrily realizes that the pictures would become real when Ma Liang paints and orders his men to send for the boy. The mandarin offers Ma Liang his freedom if he paints a mountain of gold. Discovering the deception, Ma Liang agrees if the former obeys his words. Ma Liang devises a plan to trick the greedy mandarin. He paints a sea much to the mandarins dismay but Ma Liang assures him that he is trying to make his work impressive. After the boy paints a golden mountain in the distance, the mandarin happily appreciates his work and asks him to paint a ship for him and his men to gather the gold. The mandarin and his men hurry aboard the ship. When they are at the middle of the sea, the mandarin tells Ma Liang to give him wind to speed the ship along. Ma Liang paints a wind cloud and then continues to paint storm clouds. A horrified mandarin calls out to Ma Liang to ease the weather saying that he and his men and friends would die. But Ma Liang defies orders and continued to paint more storm clouds. Giants waves crash the ship and the vessel breaks then sinks, drowning the mandarin and his friends. Ma Lien goes back to his simple life and lived happily with his family. He always becomes ready to help everyone in need. And not even one dared him to use his magic brush for their greedy wishes. So the magic paintbrush was known by everyone.
Magic Brush
1954