Mike (Channing Tatum) has big plans for a business of his own but pays his bills through a series of odd jobs, most notably performing as the star stripper at Xquisite Strip Club in Tampa, a club owned by Dallas (Matthew McConaughey), who has dreams of creating an "empire" of strip clubs. Mike soon meets 19-year-old Adam (Alex Pettyfer), a recent college dropout looking for a construction job. Mike takes Adam under his wing and encourages him to begin stripping at Xquisite. Mike is introduced to Adams sister Brooke (Cody Horn). Despite his on-and-off relationship with a woman named Joanna (Olivia Munn), Mike finds himself attracted to Brooke and promises to look after Adam. Adam falls further into the excessive lifestyle of the Xquisite dancers, using drugs and having sexual encounters with many clients. When Dallas announces he has a plan to move their act to Miami, Mike confides in Brooke that he is tiring of the lifestyle and wants to get a small business loan to pursue his dream of opening a custom furniture business. The bank declines his loan application and Mike realizes that he has to stay in the business to continue to pay his bills. Mike later attends a hurricane party at Dallas house, where Adam becomes part of a scheme created by Tobias (Gabriel Iglesias), Xquisites DJ, to sell drugs to Xquisites clients, and is eventually given a package of ecstasy. Adam begins using drugs regularly, and Mike notices more of Adams reckless behavior, to the chagrin of Brooke who is relying on Mike to protect him. A few days later, Mike and Adam perform for a private party at a sorority house where Adam brings the package of drugs with him. At the party, Adam gives a young woman an ecstasy pill causing a brawl between Adam and the womans boyfriend. Mike and Adam are forced to flee without the drugs, which Adam says were worth $1,000. They also do not collect their payment, which infuriates Dallas. After the next nights show, Mike and Adam take drugs and go to a club. Adam vomits and passes out; Brooke finds him on Mikes floor the next morning. Brooke angrily confronts Mike about his lifestyle, and ends her friendship with him. Tobias and his suppliers break into Mikes house looking for Adam, revealing that the drugs were actually worth $10,000. Mike gives up most of his life savings to pay Adams debt in full. Later, before the dancers final performance at Xquisite, Mike decides he has had enough. Knowing that Dallas has no loyalty to any of them and is driven by greed, Mike leaves the club through the back. After realizing Mike is not coming back, Dallas promotes Adam to replace Mike as lead dancer. Mike drives to Brookes apartment and tells her he has quit stripping. She has learned what he did for Adam, and she invites him to join her for breakfast. She playfully asks what they can do until morning, and then kisses him.
Magic Mike
2012