During the American Civil War, Union cavalry officer Major Amos Dundee (Charlton Heston) has been relieved of his command for an unspecified tactical error at the Battle of Gettysburg (it is implied that he showed too much initiative) and sent to head a prisoner-of-war camp in the New Mexico Territory. After a family of ranchers and a relief column of cavalry are massacred by an Apache war chief named Sierra Charriba (Michael Pate), Dundee, seizes the opportunity for glory, sends out his scout Samuel Potts (James Coburn) to locate Charriba and begins raising his own private army. He attempts to recruit Confederate prisoners led by his former friend turned rival from West Point, Captain Ben Tyreen (Richard Harris). Tyreen bears a grudge against Dundee and refuses his request. Before the war, Dundee cast the deciding vote in Tyreens court-martial from the U.S. Army prior to the American Civil War for participating in a duel, leading to Tyreens dismissal from the service and his later becoming an officer in the Confederate Army. Dundee begins building his army. Among them are Tim Ryan (Michael Anderson, Jr.) who is the only survivor of the massacre, as well as a horse thief, a drunken mule-packer, a vengeful minister, and a small group of black soldiers who were formerly slaves. Dundee reluctantly appoints the inexperienced Lieutenant Graham (Jim Hutton) as his second in command. Eventually, Tyreen changes his mind and accepts Dundees offer. He binds himself and his men to loyally serve Dundee, but only until Charriba is "taken or destroyed." When the diverse factions of Dundees force are not fighting each other, they engage the Apaches in several bloody battles. Though they rescue several young children captured by the Apaches, the Americans lose most of their supplies in an ambush, forcing them to raid a village garrisoned by French troops supporting Emperor Maximilian of Mexico. However, there is little to loot, and Dundee ends up sharing some of his dwindling food with the starving Mexicans. Beautiful resident Teresa Santiago (Senta Berger), the Austrian widow of a doctor executed for his support of the rebels under Benito Juárez, causes further tensions between Dundee and Tyreen as they compete for her attention. Dundee makes it easy for his French prisoners to escape. When they return with reinforcements as he had expected, Dundee surprises them in a night attack and makes off with badly needed supplies. After the successful raid, the men of the command begin to get along. However, one of the Confederates, O.W. Hadley (Warren Oates) attempts to desert. Dundee is forced to order his execution, which again divides the men. Teresa and Dundee then have a brief affair. In an unguarded moment with her, he is attacked by the Apaches and wounded in the leg, forcing him to seek medical help in French-held Durango. The doctor successfully removes the arrow, but Dundee has to remain there to recuperate. He is tended by a pretty Mexican, whom he eventually takes to bed. When Teresa comes upon them unexpectedly, her relationship with Dundee comes to an abrupt end. Dundee starts drinking heavily as a result. Graham leads a small group of men to sneak into town to distract the French while Tyreen shames Dundee into resuming his mission. Charriba proves difficult to pin down, so Dundee pretends to give up and starts back for the United States. The Apaches give chase and end up in a trap. Charriba is killed by Ryan during the ambush. With their bargain concluded, Dundee and Tyreen prepare to resume their personal battle, but the vengeful French appear, forcing the two men to set aside their differences. With the French having positioned a portion of their force on the American side of the Rio Grande, blocking Dundees forces from crossing into U.S. territory, the two cavalry forces charge each other at the Rio Grande, with major loss of life on both sides. Tyreen sees a French soldier seize the U.S. regimental colors, and seemingly moved by a patriotism he had thought dead, he takes back the captured American flag, and hands it over to Dundee – only to be shot in the stomach. With his last strength, he rides off to singlehandedly delay a second detachment of French cavalry while the others escape across the Rio Grande. Most of the men under Dundees command have been killed, with only himself, Graham, Potts, Ryan, Sergeant Gomez, the Confederates Chillum and Benteen, and a few other soldiers escaping. As Dundees force heads home, the narration notes that its now April 19, 1865, and the soldiers are still unaware that the Civil War is over and President Lincoln has been assassinated.
Major Dundee
1965