College student T.S. Quint (Jeremy London) is preparing for a trip to Universal Studios in Florida with Brandi Svenning (Claire Forlani), during which he plans to propose to her; however, Brandi tells him she cannot go because she has volunteered to fill in as a contestant on Truth or Date, her fathers dating game show. They argue over this and break up. T.S. turns to his best friend Brodie Bruce (Jason Lee), who has been dumped by his girlfriend Rene (Shannen Doherty), and Brodie suggests the two might find comfort at the local mall. Brodie and T.S. discover Truth or Date is being filmed at the same mall, through their friend Willam (Ethan Suplee, who throughout the movie tries to see a sailboat in a Magic Eye poster), and ask local slackers Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith, respectively) to destroy the shows stage, a task for which they devise elaborate, but ultimately unsuccessful plans. Brodie finds out Rene has begun a relationship with Shannon Hamilton (Affleck), a clothing-store manager who hates Brodie because of his "lack of a shopping agenda." Brodie confronts Rene to find out more about her relationship with Shannon, and the two have sex in an elevator. Brodie is later abducted and attacked by Shannon, who intends to have sex with Rene in a "very uncomfortable place". As a result of this incident, Jay and Silent Bob assault the malls Easter Bunny, under the incorrect assumption that he attacked Brodie. Brandis father Jared (Michael Rooker) has Brodie and T.S. arrested on false charges of drug possession at the mall. Jay and Silent Bob are able to rescue Brodie and T.S., and they hide out at a local flea market, where they meet three-nippled fortune teller Ivannah (Priscilla Barnes). T.S. decides to win Brandi back and the two return to the mall. Before the show begins, Brodie receives advice on romance from Stan Lee, who was visiting the mall. After this, Brodie requests that his friend Tricia Jones retrieve footage of her having sex with Shannon. Meanwhile, T.S. also persuades Jay to get two of the game show contestants stoned, which allow him and Brodie to replace them on Truth or Date. During the show, Brandi recognizes the voices of Brodie and T.S., and an on-air argument between the three ensues. T.S. eventually proposes to Brandi, and she accepts. As the police arrive to arrest T.S. and Brodie after the show is over, Silent Bob plays a sex tape of Shannon and Tricia, resulting in his arrest for statutory rape. Brodie and Rene renew their relationship as a result. The conclusion reveals that T.S. marries Brandi, Tricias book is a bestseller, Shannon is imprisoned (and subsequently anally raped), Willam eventually does see the sailboat, and Brodie becomes the host of The Tonight Show (with Rene as his bandleader) after impressing the shows producers with his stage banter.
Mallrats
1995