The Sisterhood The first section of the documentary interviews a crew of female CIA analysts, known as the Band of Sisters, about their involvement in tracking down Osama bin Laden. They include Susan Hasler, Cindy Storer, Nada Bakos, Gina Bennett, a 25-year veteran of the agency, and Barbara Sude, a senior Al-Qaeda analyst. It also features John E. McLaughlin who oversaw the CIA analysts and worked for staff training. The documentary mentions that the CIA started the Bin Laden Issue Station in 1995 with the code name "Alec Station." Downrange This section of the documentary interviews Peter Bergen who has been reporting in Afghanistan for over 30 years and briefly mentions the insignificance of bin Laden in 1984. An Analytic Judgement Cindy Storer discusses the analysis work and conclusions built around the early intelligence related to the Jihad movement and mentions that she wrote the CIAs first warning to the President of the United States about bin Laden. A Declaration of War This section of the documentary covers interviews with bin Laden by Peter Bergen and Peter Arnett, after bin Laden had declared a war against United States, and includes clips of the interviews. Storer and McLaughlin mention that though the CIA paid enough attention to bin Ladens attack warnings, it failed to determine the date and timing of planned attacks. Storer notes that it was a "difficult" task because al-Qaeda was a "clandestine organization." The Blame Storer discusses the criticism and accusations of negligence made against the CIA by the United States Congress. The documentary also mentions an internal CIA investigation that cast blame on some of the original members of "Alec Station" for their failure to inform the FBI, which was also investigating al-Qaeda. Later, former FBI agent Ali Soufan narrates his experience of interrogating bin Ladens bodyguard. Dismantlement McLaughlin mentions the "World Wide Attack Matrix," a war declared by the U.S. against al-Qaeda. Philip Mudd, then deputy of the CIAs counter-terrorism center, notes the CIAs task was to understand al-Qaeda and then to "dismantle" it. He also discusses changes in "Alec Station" following the 9/11 attacks. Jose Rodriguez, who ran the CIAs counter-terrorism center, and Marty Martin, who ran spies in the Middle East and who led the CIAs war on al-Qaeda, discuss their involvement in the project. Martin describes how the CIA became "more aggressive" with its changed "rule-book." Rodriguez identifies the CIAs focus on capturing Abu Zubaydah and White House approval for "enhanced interrogations" involving twelve "defined" techniques. Kill/Capture One of the CIA officers indicates that some of the original members of "Alec Station" were moved to become "targeters" for bin Laden and were sent to war zones with elite military units. The documentary then interviews Stanley A. McChrystal who commanded U.S. Special Operations units and Michael Mullen who was the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff about their roles in the project. The Breakthrough Noting Abu Musab al-Zarqawis interaction with bin Laden and the terrorist leaders association with Hassan Ghul, CIA agents then cite the importance of Abu Ahmed Al-Kuwaiti, a pseudonym for bin Ladens courier and his only point of contact to the outside world. End Game Michael Hayden, who became director of the CIA in 2006, notes his involvement in tracing bin Ladens courier and the person behind the pseudonym, Ibrahim Saeed. Joby Warrick, who covered the CIA for The Washington Post, mentions Humam al-Balawi, who was a doctor who treated the number-two leader of al-Qaeda, Ayman al-Zawahiri and his videotapes from meetings with Zawahiri. Al-Balawi was later shown in his final videotape before killing himself in a suicide bombing at a CIA post in Afghanistan, killing several CIA officers, including Jennifer Matthews. The documentary ends with the video footage of bin Laden before his capture and Stanley A. McChrystals question to the American people, "why is the enemy the enemy?"
Manhunt: The Search for Bin Laden
2013