In New York City, a waitress named Cassie Philips is on her way home when she is assaulted by two muggers and seeks aid from a police officer, who kills her by breaking her neck. Over the next two nights, the hence-forth dubbed "Maniac Cop" kills a man named Sam and an unnamed musician. This prompts Lieutenant Frank McCrae (Tom Atkins), who was told by his superiors to suppress eyewitness accounts that the killer was wearing a police uniform, to pass on information to a journalist, in an attempt to protect civilians. Unfortunately, this causes panic and dissent among the city and results in innocent patrolmen being shot to death or avoided on the streets by paranoid people. Ellen Forrest (Victoria Catlin), who suspects that her husband Jack (Bruce Campbell) may be the Maniac Cop (who has also murdered a US Delegate off-screen), follows him to a motel. There she catches him in bed with a fellow officer, Theresa Mallory (Laurene Landon). Distraught, Ellen runs out of the room and is slain by the Maniac Cop. Jack is arrested under suspicion of murder, but McCrae believes Jack has been framed. McCrae gets Jack to tell him about his relationship with Mallory, who is attacked by the Maniac Cop while working undercover as a prostitute. Mallory and McCrae fight off the killer, who is deathly cold even through his gloves and does not appear to breathe. Even though they shoot him several times, the killer appears completely unfazed. Mallory hides out in McCraes apartment while he investigates Sally Noland (Sheree North), the only person Mallory told about her affair. McCrae follows Noland to a warehouse, where she meets with the Maniac Cop and refers to him as "Matt". Returning to police headquarters, McCrae discovers files on Matthew Cordell, a fellow officer who was imprisoned in Sing Sing for police brutality and closing in on corruption in city hall (having killed at least five criminals prior). While McCrae is looking into his past, Cordell flashes back to being mutilated and killed in a shower room in Sing Sing. When McCrae and Mallory visit Jack, they tell him that they think Cordell is the real killer and plan to visit the chief medical examiner at Sing Sing. McCrae leaves to go to the clerical room, and he is attacked by Sally. She is in hysterics, convinced that Cordell is going to turn on her because he found out she gave info to McCrae (and cause shes "no good" to him). After finding a policeman hung from the ceiling by his belt, Sally is grabbed by Cordell and beaten to death against the wall. Hearing the commotion, Jack and Mallory break out of the interrogation room and find the corpses of six more officers strewn around the building (and in a bonus scene its mentione dhtat two more were also slain). Jack tells Mallory to go to McCraes car while he searches for Cordell, who disappears after throwing McCrae out a window, killing him. Jack, who looks like the one responsible for the carnage to responding officers, flees with Mallory. The two go to see Sing Sings medical examiner, who admits that while he was preparing to autopsy Cordell, the officer showed faint signs of life. The examiner secretly released Cordell into Sallys care, convinced he was completely brain dead. During the 50th Annual St. Patricks Day Parade, Jack waits outside as Mallory warns Commissioner Pike (Richard Roundtree) and Captain Ripley (William Smith) about Cordell. The two refuse to believe her and have her arrested. Cordell stabs Pike and Ripley to death, then targets Mallory, killing officer Fowler left to guard her. Mallory escapes through a window, while Jack is arrested and placed in a van, which Cordell hijacks. Mallory and another officer chase the van, which Cordell takes to his warehouse hideout, running over and killing the watchman on the way in. Cordell attacks Mallory and Jack, kills officer Bremmer, and tries to escape in the van when backup arrives. Jacks clings to the side of the van and fights for control of it, distracting Cordell and causing him to drive into a suspended pipe, which impales him. Cordell loses control of the vehicle, which crashes into the river, and sinks. The van is fished out, and, as it is searched, his body is nowhere to be found. Jack is proven innocent as not being the Maniac Cop. As everyone leaves, Cordells hand can be seen rising out of the water. In the extended cut, corrupt mayor Jerry Killium relaxes in his office, content Cordell is gone. After Killiums assistant leaves, Cordell, who was hiding behind a curtain, murders the mayor offscreen as he screams in agony and the credits roll.
Maniac Cop
1988