In Ancient Egypt, Ema "Emmy" Heshire hides in a pyramid from her mother, who wants an arranged marriage. Emmy asks the gods to save her and find her true love. In answer, Emmy mysteriously vanishes. In 1987, Philadelphia artist Jonathan Switcher takes a number of odd jobs, including one where he assembles a beautiful, perfect mannequin. Although Jonathan painstakingly expresses his artistic self, his employers dismiss him for taking too much time or deviating from a set pattern. His girlfriend Roxie, who views Jonathan as a flake, dumps him. While Jonathan is driving in the rain, he passes the Prince & Company department store and recognizes his "perfect" mannequin in a display window. He declares that she is the first that made him feel like an artist. The next morning, he saves the owner, Claire Timkin, from being hit by a falling sign. Grateful, Claire hires Jonathan, much to the chagrin of Vice President Richards, who assigns Jonathan to be a stock boy. Jonathan meets flamboyant window dresser Hollywood Montrose, and the two become friends. That night, Hollywood and Jonathan construct a window display starring Jonathans mannequin. They have a run-in with the stores extremely inept night security chief, Captain Felix Maxwell. When Jonathan is alone, the mannequin he is obsessed with comes to life as Emmy. Emmy says she has existed for centuries, appearing to various great artists as a muse. She explains that she can only appear to him when they are alone and everyone else sees her as a mannequin. To the surprise of his detractors, Jonathans window-dressing for Prince & Company attracts large audiences. At a board meeting, Richards wants to fire Jonathan, ostensibly for "showing off" with the window displays. In truth, he is actually a corporate spy from rival department store Illustra. Ignoring Richards, the board members promote Jonathan to visual merchandising. Emmy and Jonathans relationship thrives over the following weeks, and he takes her on a date to see the city on the back of his motorcycle. Every night, she helps him to create popular window displays. Impressed, Claire promotes Jonathan to a vice presidency. As the window designs are bringing a tremendous amount of customers and profit for Prince & Co., Illustras President, B.J. Wert, attempts to lure Jonathan away from Prince & Co with a job offer from Roxie, who works for him. Jonathan refuses, stating that at Prince & Co he has people he cares about and who count on him and view his work as important. They realize that Jonathan seems to have a fixation on one of the mannequins and make plans to steal Emmy. After becoming tired of Felix ineptitude and Richards attitude towards Jonathan, Claire fires them. Felix and Richards break into the store and search for Emmy. Unable to tell one mannequin from another, they simply steal every female mannequin. The next morning, Hollywood and Jonathan discover Emmy missing. Jonathan suspects Illustra and confronts Wert, who is dismissive. Roxie storms out of the office, swearing that Jonathan will never see Emmy again. Jonathan chases Roxie while being pursued by a dozen security guards. Hollywood bombards the guards with a fire hose as Roxie loads Emmy along with the other mannequins into a trash compactor. Jonathan jumps onto the loading conveyor belt and grabs Emmy, still frozen as a mannequin. As Jonathan attempts to pull her out, Emmy comes to life and stays human in front of other people for the first time. Felix and his fellow guards rush in, followed by Wert, who attempts to have Jonathan arrested for trespassing. Claire arrives, accusing Richards and Felix of breaking and entering, grand theft and kidnapping Emmy, while accusing Wert of conspiracy, displaying evidence from a newly installed video security system in the store. Wert and his cronies are arrested and hauled away and he fires Roxie as he is being dragged out. Emmy and Jonathan are married in the shop window of Prince & Company; Claire is the bridesmaid, and Hollywood is the best man.
Mannequin (1987 film)
1987