Andy Kaufman appears in black and white as his foreign character Latka Gravas, thanking the audience for coming to his movie but declaring that the movie is bad and that because he has cut out all of the "baloney," this is actually the end of the film, not the beginning. He plays a phonograph record alongside the credits before slamming its lid down. After the screen goes black, Kaufman comes back and, in a more normal voice, claims he was trying "to get rid of the people who dont understand me and dont even want to try; actually, the movie is really great!" He proceeds to show the story of his life on a film projector, starting with his childhood home in Great Neck, New York, circa 1957. Kaufman is a struggling performer whose act fails in nightclubs because, while the audience wants comedy, he sings childrens songs and refuses to tell conventional jokes. As the audience begins to believe that Kaufman may have no real talent, his peculiar "foreign man" puts on a rhinestone jacket and does a dead-on Elvis impersonation. The audience bursts into applause, realizing Kaufman had tricked them. He catches the eye of talent agent George Shapiro, who signs Kaufman as a client and immediately lands him a network TV series, Taxi, much to Kaufmans dismay, since he dislikes sitcoms. Because of the money, visibility, and a promise that he can do his own television special, Kaufman accepts the role, turning his foreign man into a mechanic named Latka Gravas. Secretly he hates doing the show and expresses a desire to quit. Invited to catch a different act at a nightclub, Shapiro witnesses a performance by a rude, loud-mouthed lounge singer, Tony Clifton, whom Kaufman wants to guest-star on Taxi. Cliftons bad attitude is matched by his horrible appearance and demeanor. But backstage, when he meets Shapiro in person, Clifton takes off his sunglasses and reveals that he is actually Kaufman. Clifton is a "villain character" created by Kaufman and his creative partner, Bob Zmuda. Once again, the gag is on the audience. Kaufmans fame increases with his Saturday Night Live appearances, but he has problems with his newfound fame. When he travels to college campuses, audiences dislike his strange sense of humor and demand that he perform as Latka, so he deliberately antagonizes them by reading The Great Gatsby aloud from start to finish. Kaufman shows up on the Taxi set as Clifton and proceeds to cause chaos until he is removed from the studio lot. He relates to Shapiro that he never knows exactly how to entertain an audience "short of faking my own death or setting the theater on fire." Kaufman decides to become a professional wrestler — but to emphasize the "villain" angle, he will wrestle only women (hired actresses) and then berate them after winning, declaring himself "Inter-Gender Wrestling Champion." He becomes smitten with one woman he wrestles, Lynne Margulies, and they begin a romantic relationship. Problems arise when an appearance on a live TV comedy show, ABCs Fridays, turns into a fiasco when Kaufman refuses to speak his lines. Also, the wrestling Kaufman enjoys getting a rise out of the crowds and feuds publicly with Jerry Lawler, a male professional wrestler, who challenges Kaufman to a "real wrestling match", which Kaufman accepts. Lawler easily overpowers and seriously injures Kaufman, resulting in the comedian wearing a neck brace. Lawler and an injured Kaufman appear on NBCs Late Night with David Letterman, ostensibly to call a truce, but Lawler insults Kaufman, who throws coffee at the wrestler and spews a vicious tirade of epithets. It is later revealed that Kaufman and Lawler were in fact good friends and staged the entire feud, but Kaufman pays a price when he is banned from Saturday Night Live by a vote of audience members, weary of his wrestling antics. Shapiro advises Kaufman and Lawler not to work together again, and later calls Kaufman to inform him that Taxi has been canceled. After a show at a comedy club, Kaufman calls together Lynne, Zmuda, and Shapiro to disclose that he has been diagnosed with a rare form of lung cancer and may die soon. They arent sure whether to believe this, thinking it could be yet another stunt, with Zmuda actually believing a fake death would be a fantastic prank. With little time to live, Kaufman gets a booking at Carnegie Hall, his dream venue. The performance is a memorable success, culminating with Kaufman inviting the entire audience out for milk and cookies. His health deteriorates. Desperate, he heads to the Philippines to seek a medical miracle through psychic surgery only to find it a hoax, laughing at the irony. He dies soon after. At his funeral, friends and loved ones sing along to "This Friendly World" with a video of Kaufman. One year later, in 1985, Clifton appears at Kaufmans tribute at The Comedy Stores main stage, performing "I Will Survive". The camera pans over the crowd and reveals Zmuda in the audience.
Man on the Moon (film)
1999