Tom Dobbs is host of a satirical news program, where he taps into peoples frustrations with the sharply divided, special interest-driven political climate. When an audience member suggests that he run for president, Dobbs laughs it off, but following an online groundswell of support, he announces on air that he will stand as a candidate. He gets on the ballot in 13 states and participates in one of the national debates with the Democratic incumbent, President Kellogg, and Republican candidate, Senator Mills. Eleanor Green works at a the Delacroy voting machine company. Delacroy has been selected to provide machines for the Presidential election, driving its stock price higher. Shortly before the elections, Eleanor notices that the voting system does not work correctly and alerts the head of the company, James Hemmings, via an e-mail that he deletes. Dobbs approaches the campaign seriously, to the chagrin of his manager, Jack Menken, and his shows producer, Eddie Langston. The night of the presidential debates, fed up with the other candidates posturing, Dobbs finally shifts back into comedian mode, keeping the audience laughing while also making serious points. He continues his showman persona on the campaign trail, thoroughly shaking up the political landscape. While he surges in the polls, he only reaches 17% compared to the 40% each for Kellogg and Mills. On Election Day, early returns show Kellogg beating Mills everywhere, exactly as Eleanor predicted the voting system would report. When results from the 13 states with Dobbs on the ballot start being reported, he sweeps them all, taking enough electoral votes to be elected President. When Eleanor confronts Hemmings that the results confirm the Delacroy computer error, senior executive Stewart turns her aside. While Dobbs and his team move from shock to celebration, Eleanor is attacked in her home and given an injection. The next day she displays dramatically erratic behavior and is sent to the hospital, where tests reveal high levels of multiple illegal drugs. Her work mate, Danny, visits her in hospital and reveals he has been promoted, which she thinks is an effort to buy him off. He tries to convince her that she has a drug habit and that no one will believe her if she goes public, but she decides that Dobbs will believe her. Eleanor travels to Washington and impersonates an FBI agent in order to talk with Dobbs. She explains that she was recently fired by Delecroy, but Dobbs is pulled away before she can explain about the election results. Dobbs tries to contact Eleanor by calling Delacroys headquarters, with Hemmings telling him that she was fired due to a drug problem. Eleanor figures out the flaw in Delacroys system – no matter the actual results, the system declares the winner as the name with double letters, in alphabetical order, so that Do"bb"s beats Kello"gg", which beats Mi"ll"s. Eleanor calls Dobbs and he whisks her off to a Thanksgiving celebration with his friends. He is smitten by her, and tells her he already knows about her drug problem. She denies any drug problem, and finally tells him that the election result was wrong, then leaves. Dobbs wrestles with the issue, then calls and tells Eleanor that he will break the news the next day. She calls and tells Danny, who provides the information to Stewart, who preempts Dobbs public announcement by announcing that Eleanor was caught attempting to throw the election for Dobbs, but that her efforts had no impact on the polls. Dobbs team turns against Eleanor, but Dobbs doesnt. Eleanor sees the news and becomes increasingly concerned, a feeling that is soon justified when she sees Delacroy agents break into her motel room and take her computer. Eleanor flees to the protection of a crowded mall, but is followed and apprehended by a Delacroy agent. She escapes and calls Dobbs from a pay phone, but another Delacroy agent drives his truck into the phone booth. Dobbs goes to the scene and talks with the injured Eleanor in her ambulance, where she convinces him with the logic about the double letters. His friends tell him to just be president, since polls now show that 60% of the nation has decided that they want him. That night, invited onto the Weekend Update segment of Saturday Night Live, he announces to the public that the Delacroy vote system was flawed, that Eleanor told her bosses before the election but they covered it up and silenced her, and that he will not run in the new election that must now take place. President Kellogg wins a second term. Dobbs returns to hosting his satirical news program, with Eleanor as his producer and later as his wife. The Delacroy executives are arrested. TIME magazine chooses Dobbs as Person of the Year.
Man of the Year (2006 film)
2006