Two years after her divorce from wealthy businessman Earl Carleton, ex-wife Gwen wants to regain partial custody of their son, Ted, who is devoted to his father. Earl has never gotten over losing her after introducing her to the man she left him for. Gwens new husband Bryan Seward is a sharp attorney who works for the State Department. Using his skill and pull, he gets the custody hearing from the divorce re-opened, stating she signed the custody agreement under emotional duress. Meeting with them before the hearing, Earl intimates that he will do all he can to harm Sewards career if they try to get the child back. As Earls personal and business lawyer Sam Dunstock prepares to handle the hearing, Earl seems unaware of the personal interest in him from Sams new assistant, Nina Wylie. The boy tells Judge Rudolph in private that he prefers living with his dad and is suspicious of his mothers motives. Disturbed that he has not developed an appreciation for or ties with his mother, the judge awards Gwen full rather than partial custody. An alcoholic binge follows for Earl, who is shattered. Nina comes to inform him that business matters are suffering from his neglect. She takes care of Earl when he drunkenly passes out, after he claimed that he never loved Gwen and only married her so a son could take over his business someday. Ted comes over to Earls to express his unhappiness with the situation. Earl, his business shut down, impulsively gives Sam power of attorney and decides to go to Europe "for some peace of mind." Nina realizes that Earl is planning to take Ted with him, where they will be out of the reach of the court, and warns Sam to call Seward. Seward arrives in time to take the child off the plane, resulting in a fight between the men. Sam is disgusted with Earls self-pitying and selfish behavior, and when Nina confesses to being in love with him, Earl cruelly says girls like her are "a dime a dozen". She hands him a dime. Gwen reveals to Nina that she wanted Ted back because she and Seward are unable to have a child of their own. Her guilt grows at discovering how unhappy she has made her son and tries to return him to Earl. Earl is forced to realize how much she loves Ted and convinces Ted that the change of custody is best for all of them. Earl starts anew with Nina, handing her back the dime.
Man on Fire (1957 film)
1957