Gregory Mason and Andy Callahan are partners in a post-World War II salvage business in Manila. Callahan is murdered after some drunken talk about sunken treasure. Mason is suspected by Lt. Zuenon of the local police because of Callahans public threat to kill Mason made earlier that day in a bar and his intense jealousy toward Mason over a relationship Mason had had with Callahans wife, Stella, before the couple were married. Stella had remained in love with Mason, but he had respected the union. Mason is arrested but released after Steven Ranier, a private investigator who had been working for Callahan, comes forward and clears him, saying he witnessed Callahans murder. Mason hires him, both for protection from whomever had killed Callahan and help finding his partners killer. Ranier introduces Mason to Brock Benedict, a prosperous local tropical fish dealer who wants Mason to find and recover a reputed million dollars worth the diamonds that had gone down off the Philippine coast during the War. Benedict has discovered it had been aboard a PT boat Mason had commanded, with Callahan serving as his Executive Officer. Benedict offers to split the proceeds equally with Mason and Stella, whom he is romantically pursuing. Benedict outfits an oceangoing craft suitable for salvage work, the "Mara Maru", persuading Mason to join him. Both Ranier and Stella coming along, with Stella appearing to be playing both sides against the middle until she discovers Benedict is planning to kill Mason as soon as the treasure is found. Still carrying a torch, she tells Mason this and begs him again to give up the expedition and return with her to a normal life in the United States; once again he insists on continuing. Mason finds the box containing the treasure and brings it aboard. It turns out to be a diamond encrusted crucifix from a Catholic cathedral in Manila that has played a significant role in the movie, both spiritual and as part of the mystery of the trail of murders leading towards the treasure. Benedict seizes it, and he and Ranier, who have been collaborating all along, agree to throw Mason overboard. Mason announces he has smashed the ships compass, forcing the pair to relent. A storm hits and the three men fight over the crucifix while Masons dive assistant Manuelo beaches the ship at his direction. Mason wrests it, and he, Stella, and Manuelo flee the ship, pursued by the others. Benedict fatally shoots the mercenary Ranier, and is joined by his bodyguard in chasing the threesome through the jungle. In a confrontation between Mason and Manuelo over the religious artifact, Masons greed causes him to beat the young man when the devout Catholic insists the cross be returned. When Stella upbraids Mason for his actions, Manuelo disappears with the icon. Exhausted from his flight, he is caught near the church steps by Senor Ortega, the brother of the man aboard the PT boat who had originally taken the cross for safekeeping from the invading Japanese. The next morning Mason appears at the church and wrests the cross from Ortega, shortly pursued by Benedict and his henchman. Ortega begs Mason to return the cross, and is slain by Benedict seeking hold off the assailants. Mason and Benedict have a brutal hand-to-hand showdown, with Mason prevailing. Police arrive to round up Benedict and his gunsel. With the prospect of a reunion with Stella and return to the States at hand, he hands the cross over to Manuelo and he and Stella are united.
Mara Maru
1952