When police officer Moe Finkelstein (Milton Berle) and his colleague Officer Salomon are ordered to serve as bodyguards to German consul Karl Baumer (Otto Preminger) by the mayor of New York City, Finkelstein turns in his badge, convinced he has to quit the service because the man is a Nazi. Capt. Mulrooney, who appointed them to this job, tells Moe that although the mayor personally is opposed to Adolf Hitler and his regime, the mayor is responsible for the safety of everybody, and he feels that through this Job Finkelstein can show them the difference between their system and the Nazi one. Moe quickly discovers Baumer is in trouble with Berlin for having squandered money intended to finance sabotage. His secretary, Baron Max von Alvenstor (Carl Esmond), has become disenchanted with his boss and refuses to delay the delivery of a damaging financial report to Berlin. Baumers Czechoslovakian wife, Sophia, confesses to Moe she loathes her husband and married him only to secure her fathers release from prison. Also at odds with Baumer is Otto Horst, who has been ordered to procure false identification cards for German saboteurs assigned to blow up an American port at the end of a radio broadcast delivered by Hitler. Under orders from Berlin to dispense with Horst, Baumer plots to frame Max for the mans murder and tries to enlist Sophias help, but she warns Horst of the scheme, so he begins to carry a gun for protection. While the Baumers are listening to the radio speech with their guests (Horst, Max, and Dr. Jennings), Horst stabs the Consul with his new knife without the others noticing it. Then Sophia grabs Horsts gun and kills Baumer. Max urges Sophia to escape before anyone sees her. Moe discovers the body and begins to question suspects, including Sophia, who readily confesses to the crime, but Max insists it was he who killed Baumer. Moe reveals Baumer not only was shot but was stabbed and poisoned as well. Meanwhile, Max rushes to the port where the saboteurs are concealed and orders them to dismantle the bomb. With only minutes to spare, the bomb is dismantled and the saboteurs are captured. Returning to the consulate, Max identifies Horst as an accomplice to the saboteurs, and Horst is arrested. A coroners report determines Baumer died of poisoning. Reconstructing how, they discover that he put the poison in the whisky glass for Max, but when something hit the window during the manifestation outside, the whisky glass for Max and his brandy glass were mixed up, so he accidentally drank from the glass he meant for Max.
Margin for Error
1943