Frank Keane (Robert Carlyle) is a grieving baker unable to move on after his wifes suicide. Frank happens upon a car accident involving Steve Mills (John Goodman) who has suffered serious injuries. Steve was on his way to a ballroom dancing class in Pasadena to meet a childhood friend and asks Frank to go in his place. Frank reluctantly agrees. As the film progresses the story moves back and forth through the timeline of Steves childhood, the accident scene, and the aftermath of Franks first Lindy hop. Steves friend does not appear at the dance class. Franks depressive state makes him uncomfortable in an environment with so many people. However, he is drawn to shy student Meredith (Marisa Tomei). Some of the students caution him against talking to her. Merediths partner Randall (Donnie Wahlberg), the star pupil, is an obnoxious bully who takes an instant dislike to Frank and tries to intimidate him. Franks friends from grief therapy convince him to continue with the dance class and soon the entire therapy group has joined. As the class progresses Frank discovers a natural talent for dance that surpasses Randalls. Randall jealously slashes Franks tires in an attempt to scare off the baker. Frank ignores the attack against the advice of others and forms a friendship with Meredith, who is revealed as Randalls stepsister and not his abused girlfriend as people assumed. Meredith defends her stepbrothers overprotective behavior, which developed in response to their fathers violent physical abuse. Frank eventually scatters his wifes ashes, an act he had been unwilling to perform in the past. He begins to put his life back together. He tracks down Steves childhood friend (Camryn Manheim) to inform her of Steves death. She reacts as if their missed reunion means nothing, but privately she cries as she sifts through her mementos of Steve. Frank and Meredith begin a relationship, and with the other members of the dance class continue to find friendship and healing in dance.
Marilyn Hotchkiss' Ballroom Dancing and Charm School
2005