Marmaduke, a teenage Great Dane, lives in rural Kansas with his stepbrother and best friend, a cat named Carlos. His owners, Phil and Debbie Winslow, work for Bark Organic dog food. Phil is very strict, from Marmadukes perspective. Phil is transferred to Orange County, California. Phils boss, Don Twombly, wants to sell Bark Organic in nation-wide Petco stores. Phil and Don meet at the dog park to discuss Phils assignment, an ad campaign to win over Petco. There, Marmaduke meets Mazie, who develops a crush on Marmaduke. He also meets Giuseppe, a Chinese Crested dog who is afraid of everything, and Raisin, a very smart but minute Dachshund. Later, Marmaduke meets a Rough Collie named Jezebel, whose boyfriend is Bosco, a violent Beauceron with two Miniature Pinscher minions named Thunder and Lightning. Bosco intimidates Marmaduke, who does not want to fight. Marmaduke and the mutts get together at night and crash Boscos pedigrees-only party, only to be scared away. Marmaduke asks Mazie to help him get a girl, whom she presumes is herself but is Jezebel. Marmaduke has Carlos pretend to be lost in the dog park, and the two stage a fight in front of all the dogs to boost Marmadukes popularity. Marmaduke enters a dog surfing contest put together as a promotional stunt by Phil to sway Petco and beats Bosco, who is the reigning dog-surfing champion. They get into a fight, which appalls the Petco executives. As a result, Phil hires a dog trainer named Anton to help him control Marmaduke, albeit with little success. Marmaduke takes Jezebel on Mazies dream date, which the latter watches from afar. While the Winslow family are on Dons boat, Marmaduke throws a party; most residents of the dog park attend, save for Mazie, Giuseppe, and Raisin. Bosco crashes the party and discovers it was Carlos at the dog park. He exposes Marmaduke, who loses his friends. When the Winslows return and Phil discovers the house in a wreck, he locks Marmaduke outside. Marmaduke runs away and leaves Mazie a toy she had given him earlier. Mazie goes to Marmadukes house, and Carlos tells her Marmaduke never returned. As she looks for him, Marmaduke meets Chupadogra, a wise, elderly English Mastiff who is feared throughout Orange County for presumably eating his owner. In reality, he ran away to lead the pack, but they abandoned him. He has spent the time alone in the woods with nothing but a blanket and his old water bowl, which reads "Buster". Buster tells Marmaduke to go home and return to his family while he still has one, and distracts a dog catcher. Marmaduke leaves but gets lost. In the morning, the Winslows discover Marmaduke missing and search for him. Mazie and the family find him at the same time on the streets, but Mazie falls into the subterranean rainwater conduit after the street below her collapses. Marmaduke jumps in after her; Phil and the fire department attempt to retrieve him. The fireman saves Mazie but loses Marmaduke in the raging water. By this time, Phil has been fired for missing the meeting for the last chance with Petco. He follows the aqueduct and finds Marmaduke in the raging waters. Phil begs Marmaduke to let go of the branch he is holding onto and let the waters carry him to Phil. He reluctantly does and is saved. Several kids record it on video and put it on YouTube. When it proves popular, Phil is rehired and Petco stocks Bark Organics. Phil discusses moving back to Kansas, but the Winslow family wants to stay in California. Marmaduke convinces the pedigrees to share the park, and they turn on Bosco, who leaves, after revealing his fear of bees (which Marmaduke is also afraid of). Meanwhile, Phil and Don think of new commercials while considering whether dogs can talk to each other or dance. Marmaduke, Jezebel, Mazie, Giuseppe, Raisin, and Buster, among others, dance and sing "What I Like About You", which turns out to be the commercial. Marmaduke and Mazie date, Marmaduke and Jezebel are friends, and all is well. That night, Marmaduke farts in Phil and Debbies bed as he winks at the camera.
Marmaduke (film)
2010