In 1794, Captain Walton leads a troubled expedition to reach the North Pole. While their ship is trapped in the ice of the Arctic Sea, the crew discovers a man, Victor Frankenstein, traveling across the Arctic on his own. Victor proceeds to tell Walton and the crew his life story. Victor grows up in Geneva with his adopted sister, Elizabeth Lavenza, who will become the love of his life. Before he leaves for the university at Ingolstadt, Victors mother dies giving birth to his brother William. Traumatized by grief afterward, Victor vows on his mothers grave that he will find a way to conquer death. However, he is shunned by his peers, who view him as a madman. Eventually, he and his friend Henry Clerval meet Waldman, a professor whose notes contain information on how to create life; Waldman warns Victor not to use them lest he create an "abomination". While performing vaccinations, Waldman is murdered by a patient, who is later hanged in the village square. Using the body, a leg from a corpse, and Waldmans brain, Victor builds a creature based on the professors notes. He is so obsessed with his work that he drives Elizabeth away when she comes to visit him. Victor finally gives his creation life, but instantly regrets his decision and tries to kill it with an axe; the creature steals his coat and is driven away by the townspeople when it tries to steal food. The creature escapes, running off to the wilderness. He spends months living in a familys barn without their knowledge, gradually learning to read and speak based on observations and memories from Waldmans brain. He attempts to earn the familys trust by anonymously helping them with their failing farm, and eventually converses with the patriarch, an elderly blind man, after murdering an abusive debt collector. But when the blind mans family returns, they attack the creature and abandon their farm. The creature finds Victors journal in his coat, learning of the circumstances of his creation. He burns down the farm and vows revenge on his creator. Victor, who believes the creature to be dead, returns to Geneva to marry Elizabeth. He finds his younger brother William has been murdered. Justine, a servant of the Frankenstein household, is framed for the crime by the creature and hanged by a lynch mob. The creature abducts Victor and demands that he make a companion for him, promising to leave his creator in peace in return. Victor begins gathering the tools he used to create life, but when the creature insists he use Justines body to make the companion, Victor breaks his promise and the creature exacts his revenge, strangling Baron Frankenstein and tearing out Elizabeths heart. Maddened with grief beyond measure, Victor races home to bring Elizabeth back to life. He stitches Elizabeths head onto Justines fully intact body, and she awakes as a re-animated creature. The two are briefly and happily reunited until the creature appears, demanding Elizabeth as his bride. Victor and the monster fight for Elizabeths affections, but Elizabeth, horrified by what she has become, commits suicide by setting herself on fire, burning the mansion to the ground. The story returns to the Arctic Circle. Victor tells Walton that he has been pursuing his creation for months to kill him. Soon after relating his story, Victor dies from pneumonia. Walton discovers the creature weeping over Victors body, confessing that for all his hatred, he still considers Victor to be his "father". The crew prepares a funeral pyre, but the ceremony is interrupted when the ice around the ship cracks. Walton invites the creature to stay with the ship, but the creature insists on remaining with the pyre. He takes the torch and burns himself alive with Victors body. Walton, having seen the consequences of Victors obsession, orders the ship to return home.
Mary Shelley's Frankenstein (film)
1994