Mary Reilly comes to work as a maid in the home of Dr. Henry Jekyll. She and Jekyll develop a rapport and Jekyll often calls on her for assistance. One night, Mary is accidentally locked in the laboratory and spies on Jekylls new assistant, Edward Hyde. On an errand to deliver a letter from Jekyll to Mrs. Faraday, a madam, Mary learns that a bloody mess at the whorehouse was caused by Mr. Hyde. Mrs. Farraday arrives at Jekylls home and insists on seeing him. She demands more money for her continued silence. While watering the garden, Mary notices the lights in the laboratory go out, and investigating, discovers a small pool of blood on the theater table. Mary returns home to plan her mothers funeral. As she is returning to Jekylls house, Hyde grabs her in the alley; he is being pursued by the police. Eventually the police question Mary about a murder and she denies having seen Hyde that day. Jekyll warns Mary that she should not have lied to the police. He tells her that he has dismissed Hyde and bribed him to disappear. Days later, Mary is surprised to discover Hyde in the doctors bed. She tries to raise the alarm, but he stops her and then reveals his true nature: he explains that as a cure for depression, Jekyll injects himself with a serum and as a result becomes Hyde, who in turn injects the "antidote" to resume being Jekyll. Hyde says he now has the ability to appear without the aid of the serum, and tries to persuade her to have sex with him. Mary is shocked; he lets her go. Mary packs to leave, but on her way out, she decides to visit the lab. There Hyde attacks her and holds a knife to her throat, but he does not kill her. He then injects himself with the antidote, and Mary is forced to witness the horrific transformation of one man into the other. Jekyll reveals that Hyde has mixed a poison with the antidote, and then dies in Marys arms. In the morning, Jekyll, although dead, has transformed into Hyde one last time, awake and smiling, as Mary walks into the fog.
Mary Reilly (film)
1996