Max Keeble (Alex D. Linz) is a paperboy who starts his first day of middle school. Max is antagonized by the corrupt megalomaniacal school principal, Elliot T. Jindrake (Larry Miller), resident school bullies Troy McGinty and Dobbs (Noel Fisher and Orlando Brown), and the Evil Ice Cream Man (Jamie Kennedy). Max also learns that an animal shelter he visits next door to the school is being closed down to build Jindrakes opulent football stadium. When Maxs father, Donald (Robert Carradine), reveals that he is moving to Chicago for his boss, because he is unable to stand up for himself, Max realizes that he can do whatever he wants to his tormentors, facing no consequences because he will be gone by then. Enlisting his equally socially outcast friends, Robe (Josh Peck) and Megan (Zena Grey), Max sets up a variety of pranks, which include traumatizing Troy by playing the main theme song of the childrens television show, MacGoogle the Highlander Frog (which frightened him as a child), then trapping him in the gym with a MacGoogle costume wearer; instigating a fight between Dobbs and the Evil Ice Cream Man by stealing the coolant coil for the ice cream truck and Dobbss handheld device; and ruining Jindrakes chances of becoming superintendent to succeed the current superintendent, Bobby "Crazy Legs" Knebworth (Clifton Davis) (an alumnus/star football player of the school) by planting animal pheromones within his breath spray, instigating a food fight in the cafeteria, and later by sabotaging his TV announcements by placing a cardboard cutout of Max mocking him. After his missions are completed, Max ends up ditching Robe and Megans going away party by accepting an invitation to a milkshake party hosted by his crush Jenna (Brooke Anne Smith), causing a falling-out. Taking Maxs earlier advice to heart, Don announces that he quit his job and started his own business, meaning that Max is not moving after all. Max freaks out at this news, and learns that other students at his school are suffering because of his actions. Max confronts Jindrake, Troy, and Dobbs one final time, and with the help of other students at his school, Max eventually defeats Troy and Dobbs for good by throwing them into the dumpster and stops Jindrake from demolishing the animal shelter, which later gets him fired for manipulating with the school budget to build his stadium (due to Max tricking Jindrake into publicly admitting to his crimes earlier). The film ends when Max rides on his bicycle delivering newspapers around his neighborhood, and the Evil Ice Cream Man starts pursuing him once again.
Max Keeble's Big Move
2001