Derek Cho, the films protagonist, tells the audience about the ID-7 virus, or "Red Eye" virus, that has been spreading throughout the world. It infects neural pathways, removing all inhibition and moral integrity, and in turn, causing people to act out their darkest impulses. While the virus is not lethal, those infected by the virus may find themselves driven to kill. The first known case of murder driven by ID-7 was committed by Nevil Reed, who stabbed a coworker, but was not deemed liable due to the influence of the virus. Derek, a lawyer at Towers and Smythe Consulting, works for the firm that handled Reeds case; he began his job full of optimism, but ended up back-stabbing, cheating, and finding loophole after loophole in order to work his way up the corporate ladder and get a corner office. One morning, Derek goes into work to find that his favorite mug is missing, and meets with a furious client - Melanie Cross - who needs more time on a loan, but thinks hes unable to help her. After discovering that a bungled legal case for massive company Vandacorp has been pinned on him by his superior Cara (called "The Siren", as she always has the bosss ear), Derek confronts her and finds that she has taken his mug. They go up to their boss John Towers office to plead their cases, but Cara wins the boss over and has Derek laid off. Dereks friend Ewan is unable to help him, and he is given official notice of his firing by his coworker "The Reaper". Derek takes his things and is escorted downstairs by company security, dejected and afraid of being disbarred. When Derek reaches the ground floor, he and the security guards find that the building is under quarantine; the ID-7 virus has been detected in the ventilation system. CDC agents have released a neutralizing agent into the building, estimating that it will take eight hours for the virus to be obliterated. Derek, realizing hes infected by the virus and will not be liable for anything he does, attacks the security guards and storms into the elevator, intending to get upstairs and kill his boss; however, hes sent down to the basement and beaten up by Towers enforcer, "The Bull". The Bull kills Ewan by mistake, infuriating Derek further. Derek is thrown into an empty office with Melanie, who is also infected. After Derek manages to get a phone call out to Vandacorp and ensure his innocence in the mis-handled case, the two decide to work together, break out of the basement, and kill the people on the top floor responsible for their respective bad situations. They first go up to The Reaper and kill two security guards to get to him, witnessing general mayhem along the way. The Reaper gives them his key card, but attacks Melanie, who kills him with a power saw. Derek and Melanie use the key card to get up to The Sirens office and take down an army of coworkers defending her. The Siren asks her long-suffering assistant Meg to get the key card for her, but Meg has destroyed it in a microwave, having been offered a promotion from upstairs to betray The Siren. Her work done, Meg kills The Siren with a pair of scissors, and Derek and Melanie go down to IT to come up with another plan to get up to the top floor. Derek and Melanie convince the companys one IT worker to hack their other boss Irene Smythes computer to get her to come down; Smythe is the one who denied Melanie the extension on her loan. Smythe agrees to give Derek her key card in exchange for Melanie. Derek agrees and restrains Melanie, but undoes the bolts on the chair Melanie is fastened to, allowing her to kill Irene and escape. On the top floor, Towers offers Derek a full partnership if he gives up his revenge mission. Derek refuses and fights his boss; the companys board of directors give him permission to kill Towers, and Derek shoves him over a railing, sending him falling from the penthouse to the ground and his death just as the quarantine is lifted and the virus is eradicated. Derek takes a higher position in the firm for just long enough to sign off on the extension on Melanies loan, then quits the company and takes up painting with Melanie. He advises the audience to take control of their own lives before its too late, accompanied by a shot of Towers body hitting the ground with a splat.
Mayhem (film)
2017