Set "Somewhere in the South Pacific", Grubers gambling scheme backfires when he tries to raise lots of money for St Theresa’s Orphanage through off-track horserace betting. Heavy bets on the horse "Silver Spot" leaves the crew owing a large sum to sailors and marines. A little while later when the crew is in New Caledonia and after Ensign Parker is kissed by Andrea Bouchard (Claudine Longet) the lightheaded Parker accidentally sets off a depth charge and destroys the dock and cargo of businessman Henri Le Clerc (George Kennedy), leaving the crew even more in debt. However, while on a reconnaissance mission to an island the crew comes across Silver Spot who was lost on the island after the horse was being moved from Australia. They decide to enter Silver Spot in a race in New Caledonia to win enough money to pay all their debts. Otherwise the only way to pay all their debts is for McHale to marry his old flame Margot Monet (Jean Willes), also known as Maggie Monahan, who owns a gambling parlor in New Caledonia (but who McHale would rather not marry). They try to disguise the horse with lots of heavy hair, but when the hair starts to come off during the race they decide to use a smoke screen from the 73 to keep anyone from seeing too much. However, this made it impossible for the racetrack authorities to know who won. But the smokescreen also caused a Japanese submarine to be captured by the 73. In the end Le Clerc is so grateful for saving his town from a Japanese attack he forgives the debt. The crew also gets a reward for rescuing Silver Spot which just happened to be enough to pay the sailors and marines. While all this was going on the Pt-73 crew was dogging Binghamton (Joe Flynn) and his aide Carpenter (Bob Hastings). And just as they were leaving New Caledonia the bashful Parker is kissed by Bouchard and again the lightheaded Parker sets off another depth charge which destroys Le Clercs dock and cargo again. But rather than marry Monet to pay for the new damage, McHale and crew immediately scramble to get out of New Caledonia.
McHale's Navy (1964 film)
1964