Sixteen-year-old homeschooled Cady Heron and her zoologist parents return to the United States after a twelve-year research trip in Africa, settling in Evanston, Illinois. Attending a public school, North Shore High, for the first time, Cady meets new classmates Janis Ian and Damian Leigh. Janis and Damian educate Cady on the schools various cliques and warn her to avoid the most popular and infamous one, the "Plastics", who are led by queen bee Regina George and include insecure rich girl Gretchen Wieners and sweet but dimwitted Karen Smith. The Plastics take an interest in Cady, and invite her to sit with them at lunch. Seeing that Cady is getting along with the Plastics, Janis hatches a plan of revenge against Regina for some past slight, using Cady as the infiltrator. Cady soon learns about Reginas journal "The Burn Book", which is filled with rumors, secrets, and insults about other girls and some teachers at school. Despite this discovery, Cady decides to forgo Janis scheme for ethical reasons. Meanwhile, Cady becomes attracted to Reginas ex-boyfriend, Aaron Samuels, whom a jealous Regina proceeds to steal back at a Halloween party by kissing him in front of Cady. This spurs Cady to fully commit to Janis plan to cut off Reginas "resources", which involve breaking Regina and Aaron up, tricking her into eating "nutrition bars" that actually make her gain weight, and turning Reginas fellow Plastics against her. In the process, Cady unwittingly remakes herself in Reginas image, becoming spiteful and superficial, and abandons Janis and Damian. When Regina is finally made aware of Cadys treachery, she retaliates by spreading the contents of the Burn Book all over the eleventh grade, quickly inciting a massive brawl throughout the school halls. To avoid suspicion, Regina inserts a fake libel of herself in the book in order to blame Cady, Gretchen, and Karen, the only female juniors not mentioned in the book. The three girls convince Principal Duvall that they did not write the book. The principal soon quells the fighting, and gathers all of the girls in the gymnasium. Math teacher Ms. Norbury, whom the Burn Book defamed as a drug dealer, makes the girls face the ways they all treat each other, confess their transgressions, and apologize to each other and the teachers. When Janis turn comes, she defies Norbury, confessing her plan to destroy Regina with Cadys help and openly mocking Regina with the support of the other girls. Pursued by an apologetic Cady, Regina storms out of the school and is struck by a school bus, breaking her spine. Without any friends, shunned by Aaron, grounded by her parents and despised by her peers at school, Cady takes full blame for the Burn Book and becomes an outcast. After she makes amends with Regina, Cadys guilt soon dissolves and she returns to her old personality. As part of her punishment for lying and failing Ms. Norburys class, she joins the Mathletes in the state championship finals, and ends up winning the competition for her team after her opponent answers incorrectly. At the Spring Fling dance, Reginas new boyfriend, Shane Oman, is elected King, while Cady is elected Queen. Onstage, Cady declares that all of her classmates are wonderful in their own way, breaks her plastic tiara, and distributes the pieces to some other girls. She then reconciles with Janis, Damian, and Aaron, and reaches a truce with the Plastics. By the start of the new school year, the Plastics have disbanded. Regina has joined the lacrosse team to deal with her anger, Karen has become the school weather reporter (claiming that her breasts can tell when it is raining), and Gretchen has joined the "Cool Asians" clique. Aaron has graduated from high school and attends Northwestern University, Janis has begun dating Mathlete Kevin Gnapoor, whom she initially disliked, and Cady declares that she is now normal. A group of new "Junior Plastics" has arisen, and Cady imagines them being hit by a bus.
Mean Girls
2004