After faking his death, Arthur Bishop has been living quietly in Rio de Janeiro with the name Santos. He is approached by Renee Tran, who knows his true identity and explains that her employer wishes for Bishop to kill three targets and stage them as accidents. Seeing her mercenaries waiting nearby, Bishop makes his escape, and flees the country to Thailand. He takes shelter at the resort island beach house of his friend, Mei, and learns that Tran is working for Riah Crain. Bishop and Crain were orphans who grew up together but were sold to a gangster and trained as warriors. Bishop made his escape and left Crain behind. Sometime later, a bruised woman, Gina Thornton, approaches Mei for first aid before returning to a boat anchored nearby. Mei observes Thornton being beaten by a man aboard the boat and alerts Bishop. Bishop and Mei rescue Thornton from the man, but in the scuffle, the man hits his head on the boats equipment and dies. Finding no evidence of his identity, Bishop sets the boat ablaze. While Mei tends to Thorntons injuries, Bishop finds that Thornton is also connected to Crain, and believes Crain anticipated Bishop would become romantic with her; Crain would then have kidnapped her to make Bishop take the assassination jobs. When he charges Thornton with his theory, she reveals that Crain threatened the childrens shelter in Cambodia where she works unless she participated. Over the next few days, Bishop gets to know Thornton better and falls in love, but as expected, Crains mercenaries arrive and abduct them. Crain threatens Thorntons safety to coerce Bishop to undertake the assassination jobs. The first target is a warlord named Krill, who is incarcerated in a Malaysian prison. Bishop travels to Malaysia and gets himself imprisoned to access Krill. Bishop gains Krill’s trust by killing a man already planning on killing Krill. Bishop kills Krill and escapes the prison with the help of Crains operatives. The next target is Adrian Cook, who runs an underage trafficking ring from Sydney. Bishop bypasses the tight security of Cooks penthouse apartment and breaks the glass bottom of Cooks overhanging pool, plummeting him to his death. While relaying details of the third target, Crain allows Bishop to speak to Thornton, who sends Bishop signals to help him identify Crains boat. Bishop locates the boat and attempts to rescue her, but Crain recognizes Thorntons attempt in time and foils him. Crain demands Bishop complete the final assassination in 24 hours, identifying the target as Max Adams, an American arms dealer in Varna, Bulgaria. While planning the attempt, Bishop recognizes that Crains targets were his only other major competition in arms dealing. Bishop instead approaches Adams and warns him of Crains plan, and gets Adams to help. Bishop fakes Adams death, and reports his success to Crain, who directs him to a meeting point. There, Bishop fends off attacks by Crains mercenaries and makes for Crains boat anchored nearby. He fights off more of Crains men and rescues Thornton. He discovers the boat is rigged with explosives and places Thornton in an escape pod. Crain attacks Bishop, but Bishop overpowers him and secures him to the boat. The bombs explode, killing Crain and apparently Bishop. Thornton is rescued and the remains of Crains boat are salvaged. Thornton returns to Cambodia and her teaching duties, where she is surprised when Bishop meets her there. Adams discovers how Bishop survived but destroys the evidence to protect Bishops secret.
Mechanic: Resurrection
2016