The film begins with the camera panning through pictures of Medusas album covers and film posters eventually showing her lying in a bed while getting a massage and her hair done. She starts telling the viewers about how lonely she feels since her tour ended. The film then flashes back to when Medusa was rehearsing her "Blonde Leading the Blonde Tour". After being crushed by a giant genitalia statue, Medusa explains in a voice-over how the tour was a technical nightmare. Eventually, the tour begins in the Philippines, only for Medusa to find out that she was performing during the eruption of a volcano. In an interview, Medusas manager Benny explains how Medusas first single "Like a Video" ("Like a Virgin") was a hit for MTV, leading into a parody performance of Madonnas "Blond Ambition" version. After that, Medusa is shown talking to her boyfriend. The tour then moves to Japan where Medusa tells her poverty stricken dancers that theyll be receiving a pay cut. Another shows women protesting Medusa and her director showing how Medusa gained the inspiration to shoot a music video involving robbing a store. Finally, the tour moves to the U.S where Medusa and her dancers play a game of Truth or Dare. After that, she is shown being at a party where a director who tries to get her to star in a movie similar to "Heidi". Later, while Medusa is listing negative things about people, Bobcat Goldthwait shows up and gets offended when he sees Medusa gag after he called her show "neat". After that, Medusa is shown reciting lines from "Romeo and Juliet " while a voice-over explains that Medusa is planning to star in the Broadway show after the tour, and that her ex- husband Shane Pencil was helping her, but Shane gets fed up with Medusa and he leaves. Another voice-over during one of Medusas show explains her she almost died during "Expose Yourself" ("Express Yourself") as she got electrocuted. After that, Medusa is shown visiting her dogs grave, only to find out she was at the wrong grave. While in Atlanta, Police Officers show up and explain that Medusa will be arrested if she shows her "muffin". Medusa performs "Party in My Pants" and "Vague" ( "Like a Prayer", "Into the Groove", and "Vogue"). Medusa then goes to the officers to get arrested only for them to ask her for an autograph. Finally, the tour finishes in New York and while Medusa is saying goodbye to the dancers, it is revealed that Medusa was viewing the footage while trying to find an ending. She ends up in the hospital to get a toy dino removed while a montage of clips plays with "Life May End" ( "Live to Tell") . The dancers come to visit her, and the film ends with them trying to sleep.
Medusa: Dare to Be Truthful
1992