The backdrop for Meet Me in St. Louis is St. Louis, Missouri in the year leading up to the 1904 Worlds Fair. It is summer 1903. The Smith family leads a comfortable upper-middle class life. Alonzo Smith (Leon Ames) and his wife Anna (Mary Astor) have four daughters: Rose (Lucille Bremer), Esther (Judy Garland), Agnes (Joan Carroll), and Tootie (Margaret OBrien); and a son, Lon Jr. (Henry H. Daniels, Jr.). Esther, the second eldest daughter, is in love with the boy next door, John Truett (Tom Drake), although he does not notice her at first. Rose is expecting a phone call in which she hopes to be proposed to by Warren Sheffield (Robert Sully). Esther finally gets to meet John properly when he is a guest at the Smiths house party, although her chances of romancing him dont go to plan when, after all the guests are gone and he is helping her turn off the gas lamps throughout the house, he tells her she uses the same perfume as his grandmother and that she has "a mighty strong grip for a girl". Esther hopes to meet John again the following Friday on a trolley ride from the city to the construction site of the World Fair. Esther is sad when the trolley sets off without any sign of him, but cheers up when she sees him running to catch the trolley mid journey. On Halloween, Tootie returns home injured, claiming that John Truett attacked her. Without bothering to investigate, Esther confronts John, physically attacking him and scolding him for being a "bully". When Esther returns home, Tootie confesses that what really happened was that John was trying to protect Tootie and Agnes from the police after a dangerous prank they pulled went wrong. Upon learning the truth, Esther immediately dashes to Johns house next door to apologize, and they share their first kiss. Mr. Smith announces to the family that he is to be sent to New York City on business and eventually they will all move. The family is devastated and upset at the news of the move, especially Rose and Esther whose romances, friendships, and educational plans are threatened. Esther is also aghast because they will miss the Worlds Fair. An elegant ball takes place on Christmas Eve. Esther is devastated when John cannot take her as his date, due to his leaving his tuxedo at the tailors and being unable to get it back. But she is relieved when her grandfather (Harry Davenport) offers to take her instead. At the ball, Esther fills up a visiting girls (Lucille Ballard, played by June Lockhart) dance card with losers because she thinks Lucille is a rival of Roses. But when Lucille turns out to be interested in Lon, Esther switches her dance card with Lucilles and instead dances herself with the clumsy and awkward partners. After being rescued by Grandpa, she is overwhelmed when John unexpectedly turns up after somehow managing to obtain a tuxedo, and the pair dance together for the rest of the evening. Later on, John proposes to Esther and she accepts. Esther returns home to an upset Tootie. She is soothed by the poignant "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas". Tootie, however, becomes more upset at the prospect of the familys move and runs downstairs, out into the cold to destroy the snowmen they have made. Mr. Smith sees his daughters upsetting outburst from an upstairs window. Mr. Smith later announces that the family will not leave St. Louis after all when he realizes how much the move will affect his family. Warren boldly declares his love for Rose, stating that they will marry at the first possible opportunity. On or after April 30, 1904, the family take two horse drawn buggies to the Worlds Fair. The film ends that night with the entire family (including boyfriends-to-turn-into-presumed-husbands and Lons new love interest) overlooking the Grand Lagoon at the center of the Worlds Fair just as thousands of lights illuminate the grand pavilions.
Meet Me in St. Louis
1944