Gaylord "Greg" Focker (Ben Stiller) is a nurse living in Chicago. He intends to propose to his girlfriend Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo), but his plan is disrupted when he and Pam are invited to the wedding of Pams sister, Debbie (Nicole DeHuff), at Pams parents house on Long Island. Greg decides to propose to Pam in front of her family but this plan is put on hold when the airline company loses his luggage which contains the engagement ring. At the Byrnes family home, Greg meets Pams father Jack (Robert De Niro), mother Dina (Blythe Danner) and their beloved cat Mr. Jinx. Jack takes an instant dislike towards Greg and openly criticizes Greg for his choice of career as a male nurse and anything else he sees as a difference between Greg and the Byrnes family. Greg tries to impress Jack but his efforts fail. Greg becomes even more uncomfortable after he receives an impromptu lie detector test from Jack and later learns from Pam that her father is a retired CIA operative. Meeting the rest of Pams family and friends, Greg still feels like an outsider. Despite efforts to impress the family, Gregs inadvertent actions make him an easy target for ridicule and anger. During a volleyball game he causes Debbie a broken nose and a black eye, uses a malfunctioning toilet which floods the Byrnes back yard with sewage, sets on fire the wedding altar, and several misunderstandings cause Jack to believe Greg is a marijuana user. Later, Greg loses Jinx and replaces him with a stray whose tail he spray paints to make him look like Mr. Jinx. By now, the entire Byrnes family, including Pam, agrees that it is best for Greg to leave Long Island until the wedding concludes. Unwillingly, Greg goes to the airport where he is detained by airport security for insisting that his bag stay with him rather than be checked. Back at the Byrnes household, Jack tries to convince Pam that Greg was lying to her about everything. He claims to be unable to find proof of anyone named "Greg Focker" ever taking the Medical College Admission Test which Greg claimed he had passed with the initial intention of becoming a doctor. Upon learning that Gregs real first name is Gaylord, and being presented with proof from Pam that he did in fact pass the test, Jack rushes to the airport, convinces airport security to release Greg and brings him back to the Byrnes household. As Greg is proposing to Pam, Jack and Dina listen in on their conversation from another room, agreeing that they should now meet Gregs parents. After Debbies wedding, Jack views footage of Greg recorded by hidden cameras that he had placed strategically around the house.
Meet the Parents
2004