Carl Taylor (Sheen) and James St. James (Estevez) are a pair of troublemaking garbagemen who dream of owning a surf shop. The two uncover an illegal toxic dumping operation in their own city, Las Playas. The film begins with the pair collecting trash as they usually do, by tossing garbage cans in the street and making noise that disturbs the residents. One of the local cops, Mike, hassles them frequently, but Carl and James seem to have gotten used to this treatment and shrug it off. After work, the pair spy on a woman living across the street with a telescope; they discover that she is being mistreated by a man who is with her. Determined to right the wrong, Carl shoots the man in the rear with a pellet gun. He and James both hide and laugh. Moments later, the man - a city councilman named Jack Berger (Darrell Larson), whos running for mayor - is strangled and ends up found the next day by Carl and James in a yellow drum. They decide that turning in the body would implicate themselves, as they had shot him earlier. Carl and James ask the advice of crazed Vietnam War vet Louis Fedders (Keith David), who helps them to stash the body after reassuring them that the man died by strangulation, not any shooting. Carl goes over to meet Susan Wilkins (Leslie Hope), the woman who they saw with Jack the night before. Louis ends up exacerbating the situation when he kidnaps a pizza delivery man who sees James with the body. James, Louis, the pizza man and the stiff end up leaving the apartment to follow Carl and Susan, but they are pulled over by Mike and his partner, Jeff. Louis, however, uses the pellet gun to get them out of trouble and to cuff Mike and Jeff together in a compromising position at a playground. Meanwhile, Carl and Susan are discovered by Biff and Mario, the hitmen who had killed Jack. The couple are eventually stuffed into cans and set to be disposed of in a lake that serves as an illegal toxic dump for a local businessman, Maxwell Potterdam III, who was also the man who had Jack killed. Carl and Susan manage to escape from the cans and reunite with the others. The group fights the toxic dump workers and brings down Potterdam.
Men at Work (1990 film)
1990