In 2012, an alien criminal named Boris the Animal, a Boglodite, escapes from a maximum-security prison on the Moon and arrives on Earth, bent on taking revenge on Agent K, who shot off his left arm and captured him in 1969. He confronts K, who is with his partner Agent J, telling him he is "already dead". J then returns to MiB Headquarters and discovers that K was responsible not only for capturing Boris, but for deploying the "ArcNet", a shield that prevented the Boglodites from conquering Earth and caused their extinction. Boris travels back in time to kill the young Agent K. With history altered so that K is long-dead, J finds that only his memory has been unaffected, and no one from the Agency understands his obsession with K until Agent O, the new Chief, deduces that there has been a fracture in the space-time continuum. With K out of the picture, the ArcNet was never deployed, and there is nothing to protect the present-day Earth from the Boglodite invasion, so J must travel back in time to stop Boris and save K. Back in 1969, J goes to Coney Island, knowing from the Agencys records that in 1969, Boris will commit a murder there. He finds Boris, but is discovered and arrested by 1969 K, who takes him to MiB Headquarters and prepares to neuralyze him, but decides at the last minute to investigate Js claims that he has travelled from the future to protect him. K and J follow clues, leading them to a bowling alley, and then to The Factory, where they come across an alien named Griffin, who is in possession of the ArcNet. Griffin, who can see all possible future timelines and outcomes, senses Boris is coming and escapes, but not before promising to give them the ArcNet the next time they meet. Boris later captures Griffin. J and K pursue and rescue Griffin, acquiring the ArcNet. 1969 Boris escapes and 2012 Boris arrives, and they team up. Upon learning that they must go to Cape Canaveral, Florida and attach the ArcNet to the Apollo 11 rocket so it can be deployed in space, J reveals the real purpose of his mission to K, who initially takes the news badly. J, K, and Griffin fly there using jetpacks, but are stopped by the military. Griffin shows a skeptical colonel the future, convincing him of the importance of their mission, and the officer assists them in reaching the launch site. As the agents climb up the rockets launch tower, they are attacked by both 1969 Boris and 2012 Boris. Using his time-travel device, J evades an attack by 2012 Boris and knocks him off one of the launch tower bridges. K shoots off 1969 Boriss left arm, knocking him off the tower as well. The ArcNet is attached and deploys successfully when the rocket launches, with 2012 Boris being incinerated by the rockets exhaust, killing him. 1969 Boris attacks K on a beach, but the colonel saves K by sacrificing himself. K kills Boris instead of arresting him as he originally did. The colonels young son arrives and inquires about his father, but rather than tell him the truth, K neuralyzes him and tells him only that his father is a hero. Observing from afar, J realizes that the young boy is himself, the colonel was his father, that K has actually been watching over him all his life, and was there when the timeline changed, thus explaining why he was the only one who remembered K in the alternate 2012. His mission complete, J returns to 2012, where he finds a more cheerful K, and thanks him for being his surrogate father. Meanwhile, Griffin observes the moment and is briefly terrified when K almost forgets to tip a waitress, which he knows only occurs in timelines where an asteroid is on a collision course with Earth. However, K remembers and leaves a tip and the asteroid hits a satellite and is destroyed.
Men in Black 3
2012