The trio are employed as handymen in a recording studio at the fictional radio station KGBY. Larry and Curly battle back and forth as they unhook a pipe to connect it to a radiator. Moe gets mad at the two of them, only to slip and fall down. While not doing their work, the trio watches a recording session through a window as Alice Van Doren (Christine McIntyre) sings "Voices of Spring". She is recording this song under a pseudonym (Miss Andrews) to audition for a radio show, an endeavor to which her father (Sam Flint) objects. After she finishes her song, the Stooges boss (Fred Kelsey) comes into the room and sees them not working. He orders them to finish the job. Outside in the hallway, Larry and Curly accidentally hit Moe with two long pieces of pipe, leading to an argument. Their boss intervenes and as hes yelling at them, hes accidentally struck with the same pipes. The Stooges flee into an adjoining recording room with their boss on their heels. The room is occupied by a bad-tempered Italian baritone singer/violinist (Gino Corrado) and piano player in a session. During the battle with their boss, they end up destroying the singers glasses and violin. They defeat their boss only to have the irate singer attack them, forcing them to run again into another room. Inside the room, which served as the recording room for Alice, they pretend to be recording a ridiculous soap commercial, before finding Alices record. Impressed by the operatic virtuosity of this stunningly beautiful soprano—Christine McIntyre was, in fact, a trained opera singer—Curly lip syncs, as the other stooges adorn him as a woman. Moe pretends to be playing a flute while Larry is "playing" the piano. Curly (in drag) is "heard" by the radio host Mrs. Bixby (Symona Boniface). Moe dubs Curly "Señorita Cucaracha," and the trio are hired to sing professionally on the radio, but must also appear at the home of the radio show’s sponsor for a party. The Stooges arrive at Mrs. Bixbys home and discover that the Italian baritone is also present. They proceed to sabotage his vocal performance by flipping cherries into his mouth whenever he attempts to sing an aria, until he chokes on one and has to be slapped on the back. The team then has a brief quarrel prior to performing, resulting in Moe breaking the record over Curly’s head. Ironically the quarrel was over protecting the demo record. Larry then eyes a collection of records, hastily selects the "Lucia Sextet," and announces it as the "Sextet from Lucy". This song, however, requires pantomime by all three. This works well until the baritone recognizes them and unplugs the phonograph midway through the "Lucia Sextet", leaving the trio groaning out loud. They claim that Curlys voice is gone. Alice Van Doren is also present at the party, and catches onto the boys scheme. She aids them by singing "Voices of Spring" from behind a curtain as Curly once again mimes the lyrics, so her father would properly judge her performance without knowing it was his daughter singing. The Italian baritone is perplexed at Curlys ability and reacts by tossing a banana into Curlys mouth, revealing the trio as phonies. He pulls back the curtain hiding the real singer, and removes Curlys wig. Alices father, however, sees that his daughter has genuine talent, and decides she should indeed pursue her singing career. As for the Stooges, they are pelted with records as they make a quick exit from the party.
Micro-Phonies
1945