In 2004 Houston, Jack Harris drives with several million dollars in a duffel bag to deliver to Russian mobsters, worried about the safety of his wife Diana and their children. In 1997 Los Angeles, Jack has a reputation for solving problems, and helps a sick friend co-managing a nightclub. Wayne Beering and Buck Dolby are best friends renting together. The drug-addicted friends are discussing pornography and Wayne asks why you cannot buy porn on the internet. Buck, a former NASA scientist, takes 15 minutes to create a program to allow online credit card transactions to charge people for looking at porn on their website. They earn thousands of dollars in a matter of days. Needing more porn they approach Nikita Sokoloff, a Russian mob boss who owns a local strip club, who agrees to 25% of their business in return for letting them photograph and film his strippers. Buck and Waynes website is successful and they party in Las Vegas while neglecting to make payments to Sokoloff. Jack has made the L.A. nightclub a success and attracts the attention of Jerry Haggerty, a crooked lawyer hired by Wayne and Buck to sort out their problem with Sokoloff. Jack meets the friends and becomes a partner in the business, but not wanting to be a pornographer recommends they instead they become middle men and take a cut of the money transfers. Jack pays off Haggerty $200,000, knowing Haggerty is under federal indictment and a threat to the business. Sokoloffs nephew comes to collect his $400,000 profit, but when he threatens to kill Jacks family, one of Jacks body guards punches his head so hard that he starts bleeding from his ear and falls dead. Jack and his partners dump the body in the ocean and fabricate a story that Sokoloffs nephew took the money and ran. Sokoloff is skeptical, but agrees to let it pass in return for an increase to 50% of the partnership. Jack expands the business by focusing on the online credit card billing services. They create a billing company called "24/7 billing.com", becoming the titular Middle Men for other internet-based porn providers. The billing business is making hundreds of millions of dollars within a year. Jack becomes addicted to the money, sex and power of his new lifestyle, spends little time with his Houston family and starts a relationship with porn star Audrey Dawns. Haggerty, bitter that Jack cut him out of what has become a multimillion-dollar partnership, schemes to take over the company. He manipulates the foolish Wayne and Buck to work with Denny Z, providing billing services for Dennys websites which include child pornography. Audreys live stream porn site is watched by an international web of terrorists, which the US government uses to track and arrest or kill the terrorists. The FBI asks for Jack and Audreys help to expand their terrorist hunt, but Wayne and Buck fear that Jack is meeting with the FBI to turn them in for the murder of Sokoloffs nephew and the child porn. The two confide in Haggerty about killing Sokoloffs nephew, which Haggerty uses to incite Sokoloff to make a move on Jack. When Jack finds out that his partners are helping facilitate Denny Zs child porn, he confronts Denny Z at a house party. Jack sees Audrey having sex with two men at the party and realizes how much he misses his family, leading him to break up with Audrey. An FBI agent, appreciative of the help Jack has given the government, warns him that 24/7billing.com is about to be indicted for supporting child porn. Jacks life is further complicated when Sokoloffs men kidnap his maids son, who they believe is Jacks son. Jack gathers up several million dollars and goes to meet Sokoloff, as seen at the start of the film. Jack is told that the boy will be released if he signs a contract giving his partnership share to Wayne, Buck, Sokoloff, and Haggerty. Jack signs the agreement but asks to backdate it six months, claiming he wants to avoid taxes. Sokoloff kills Haggerty, but lets Jack go in recognition for all the money he has made him. Jacks FBI contact charges, Wayne and Buck with providing billing services for child porn. Jack avoids charges having sold the company before the crime. Sokoloff flees the country. Jack and the maids son return home, and Diane welcomes Jack back.
Middle Men (film)
2010