Joe Buck, a young Texan working as a dishwasher, dresses in new cowboy clothing, packs a suitcase and quits his job. He heads to New York City, hoping to succeed as a prostitute. Initially unsuccessful, he succeeds in bedding a well-to-do middle-aged New Yorker, but ends up giving her money after she lashes out at him when he requests payment. Joe then meets Enrico Salvatore "Ratso" Rizzo, a con man with a limp who takes $20 from Joe by offering to introduce him to a known pimp. After discovering that the man is actually an unhinged religious fanatic, Joe flees the encounter in pursuit of Ratso. Joe spends his days wandering the city and sitting in his hotel room. Soon broke, he is locked out of his hotel room and his belongings are impounded. He tries to make money by agreeing to receive oral sex from a young man in a movie theater. When he learns that the young man has no money, Joe threatens him and asks for his watch, but eventually lets him go. The following day, Joe spots Ratso and angrily shakes him down. Ratso offers to share the apartment in which he is squatting in a condemned building. Joe accepts reluctantly, and they begin a "business relationship" as hustlers. As they develop a bond, Ratsos health grows steadily worse. In a flashback, Joes grandmother raises him after his mother abandons him. He also has a tragic relationship with Annie, a local mentally unstable girl. Ratsos life story comes through stories he tells Joe. His father was an illiterate Italian immigrant shoe-shiner, who worked in a subway station. He developed a bad back, and "coughed his lungs out from breathin in that wax all day". Ratso learned shoe-shining from his father but wont stoop so low as to do it. He dreams of moving to Miami. An unusual couple approach Joe and Ratso in a diner and hand Joe a flyer, inviting him to a party. They enter a Warhol-esque party scene. Joe smokes a joint, thinking its a cigarette and, after taking a pill someone offered, begins to hallucinate. He leaves the party with a socialite, who agrees to pay $20 for spending the night with him, but Joe cannot perform. They play scribbage together and Joe shows his limited academic prowess. She teasingly suggests that Joe may be gay and he is suddenly able to perform. In the morning, the socialite sets up her friend as Joes next customer and it appears that his career is on its way. When Joe returns home, Ratso is bedridden and feverish. Ratso refuses medical help and begs Joe to put him on a bus to Florida. Desperate, Joe picks up a man in an amusement arcade, and when things go wrong, he robs the man. With the money, Joe buys bus tickets. On the journey, Ratsos condition deteriorates. At a rest stop, Joe buys new clothing for Ratso and himself, discarding his cowboy outfit. As they near Miami, Joe talks of getting a regular job, only to realize Ratso has died. The driver tells Joe there is nothing else to do but continue on to Miami. Joe, with tears welling in his eyes, sits with his arm around his dead friend.
Midnight Cowboy
1969