Mike Hammer (Stacy Keach) is asked by a Las Vegas entertainer named Johnny Roman (Edward Winter) to come to Vegas. After that call, his secretary Velda (Lindsay Bloom) brings in her nephew (Michael Ray Bower) for a visit. Hammer refuses Johnnys invitation, but somebody knocks him out and abducts him, then tosses him out of a plane with a parachute when Hammer arrives in downtown Las Vegas. Desiring to find out who got the drop on him, Hammer decides to look up Johnny Roman. At a hotel, he gets a backstage pass to Johnnys dressing room from an unknown writer. Johnnys doorman, Reggie Diaz (Lyle Alzado) keeps him from entering the dressing room and Hammer beats him up, but Johnny tells Reggie to leave him alone. Hammer thinks Johnny shanghaied him, but Johnny denies it. At that moment, Johnny tells Hammer that the singer, Barbara Leguire stole something from him. Hammer gets a message from an unknown writer to meet a person at a wedding chapel. He meets a wealthy socialite named Helen Durant (Lynda Carter). While Hammer stays at the Hilton hotel, Johnny dies in an explosive booby-trap that he had no idea had been set uppppp, and somebody planted evidence that points to Hammer. Hiltons security officer supervisor, Leora Van Treas (Michelle Phillips) frames him for the crime. Hammer then sets out to try and clear his name after Barbara gets killed and he is again the suspect. He wonders if there was a key to Barbaras costume. Hammer chases an unknown criminal who falls from the ceiling with him at the Hilton hotels casino landing on a craps table. Hammer meets a greedy medical doctor named Carl Durant at a hospital. Carl suspiciously asks him about Johnnys death and who bailed him out of jail. The answer turns out to be his wife, Helen who met Hammer at the wedding chapel earlier. Hammer recovers afterwards and continues to search for clues about the murder mystery, but meets Amy Durant (Stacy Galina) and Carls employee accountant, Brad Peters (Jim Carrey). Hammer walks to Hiltons control room to turn off the security cameras, but the guards arrest him and send him to Leora who reveals to him that the criminal was William Bundy (Royce D. Applegate). After leaving Leoras office, Hammer thinks about calling Helen on the telephone for more facts about the ongoing murders, but Reggie beats him up once more. Brad breaks up the fight and sets up a trip for Mike to Bundys ranch, Rosy Buttes. Hammer encounters Bundy once again, but he gets thrown out by him, left in the desert alone. Hammer obtains a bikers motorcycle, and decides to let Brad return to Bundys ranch with him. Bundy is found deceased when they arrive there, so they flee from the policemen and wander in the desert. During their walk in the desert, Brad tells Mike that he is thinking about getting a career in being a comedian, but Hammer has not been smiling for three days due to the ongoing murders. They soon find a Prospectors cabin and call Amy to send them back to downtown Las Vegas in her car. Amy later tells Mike that Johnny Roman was her biological father the whole time, though Carl was the man who raised her. Hammer finds out that Helen lied to him about the true identification of Amys father, so he seeks for Helen at Carls clinic for that serious conversation. Helen explains about Johnny mistreating her when she was a young chorus girl, but explains that she married Carl during her pregnancy. Helen gives a suitcase to Hammer to pay for the return of Johnnys diary. Leora waits at the Hoover Dams catwalk. Two riflemen from Carls clinic also await Mike including Reggie and John McNiece (Jessie Lawrence Ferguson, the same man who abducted Mike and tossed him out of the airplane). Both riflemen shoot Leora. Hammer shoots both John and Reggie, but wonders who set it up. Helen soon takes Mike to Lake Mead to spend the night in her cabin on the boat, but she flees when he goes to sleep. The next day, Carl and Brad arrive seeking for an account book which Hammer mistakes for Johnnys diary. Carl seeks for Helen afterwards, but she is nowhere to be seen. Carl opens a booby-trapped door which causes his entire boat to have a very big explosion. The explosion kills both him and Brad. Hammer returns to the dock after jumping overboard using Carls former motorboat. While Mike confirms that Carl and Brad are both deceased, he finds out that Helen is still alive when he sees a boat with her name on it realizing she swindled her own husband. Mike pursues Helen at Carls clinic and finds out that the account book, diary, or key on Barbaras costume did not have any existence. In fact, Helen was the murderer all along. The actual fact is Johnny and Carl were stealing money from the telethon bin prior to their deaths. They were both Amys fathers (Johnny biologically, but Carl raised her), but humiliated Helen when she had a relationship with them. The other actual fact was Barbara blackmailed Johnny for the fictitious diary. Mike has Helen arrested and sent to prison afterwards. Amy finds out that her mother, Carl, Brad, and Johnny (Amys biological father) told numerous lies to her. Hammer tells Amy that she must rely on herself in the future and drops a bunch of dollars from Helens case for a donation to Johnnys "Have a Heart" telethon bin. After that, he returns to Manhattans Lite n Easy Bar once again spending time with Velda.
Mike Hammer: Murder Takes All
1989