Monte Beragon (Zachary Scott), the second husband of Mildred Pierce (Joan Crawford) is shot. He murmurs the name "Mildred" before he dies. The police tell Mildred (Joan Crawford) that they believe the murderer is her first husband, Bert Pierce (Bruce Bennett). Bert has already been interrogated and has confessed to the crime. Mildred protests that he is too kind and gentle to commit murder, and goes on to relate her life story to the investigating officer. Mildred and Bert are unhappily married. Mildred must bake and sell pies to support the family after Bert leaves the real estate business he operated with Wally Fay (Jack Carson). Bert bitterly accuses Mildred of caring more about their daughters, and making them her priority instead of him. Mildred admits this, and the two decide to separate. Wally propositions Mildred the moment he learns that she and Bert separated. Mildred retains custody of her two daughters, the 16-year-old Veda (Ann Blyth), a bratty social climber and aspiring pianist, and 10-year-old Kay (Jo Ann Marlowe), a tomboy. Mildreds principal goal is to provide material possessions for Veda, who longs for a social status above that of her family and is ashamed of her mothers work as a baker. When Mildred is forced to take a job as a waitress she tries to hide the fact from Veda. But Veda learns the truth and treats her mother with derision. While Mildred is on a weekend trip with Monte at his beach house, Kay contracts pneumonia and dies. Mildred channels her grief into work and throws herself into opening a new restaurant. With the help of her new friend and former supervisor, Ida (Eve Arden), Mildreds new restaurant is a success. Wally helps Mildred buy the property, and soon she owns a chain of restaurants throughout Southern California. She dotes on Veda, who remains spoiled, selfish and disrespectful of Mildreds common background and choice of profession. When Veda secretly marries a well-to-do young man for his money and position, his family objects to the marriage. Veda agrees to leave the marriage but claims she is pregnant with his child and demands ten thousand dollars in return. Her husbands family agrees, but Veda smugly confesses to Mildred that she lied about her pregnancy just to get the money. Outraged, Mildred tears up the check and throws Veda out of the house. Mildred decides to go on a series of vacations in order to forget what happened with Veda, but eventually returns home. Bert invites Mildred out for the evening, but takes her to a club where Veda is performing as a lounge singer. Bert says he couldnt bear to tell Mildred what their daughter was doing and had to show her. Mildred begs Veda to come home, but Veda sneers and says her mother can never give her the lifestyle she wants. Desperate to reconcile with her daughter, Mildred coaxes Monte Beragon, a bankrupt but socially well connected playboy, into a loveless marriage in order to improve her social status. Montes price for marriage is a one-third share of Mildreds business, so that he can settle his debts. Mildred agrees, and Veda, eager to live out her dream as a debutante, pretends to reconcile with her mother. Eventually the cost of supporting Montes and Vedas rich lifestyles bankrupts Mildred and she must sell the restaurant chain. She goes to confront Monte at his beach house, and finds Veda in his arms. Veda scornfully tells Mildred that Monte loves her and will leave Mildred. Mildred runs out to her car in tears. But when Monte tells Veda that he would never marry her, she shoots Monte. Mildred hears the gunshots from her car. Veda begs her mother to help her one more time. Mildred initially refuses and calls the police, but when Veda plays on Mildreds guilt that she was a bad mother, agrees to help Veda elude justice. After Mildred finishes her story, the detectives admit they knew all along that Veda committed the murder. As Veda is led away, Mildred tries to apologize but Veda rebuffs her. Mildred leaves the station to find Bert waiting for her.
Mildred Pierce (film)
1945