When the electricity cuts out in the New York City skyscraper where he works, cost accountant David Stillwell (Gregory Peck) decides to leave by the darkened stairs rather than wait for power. A young woman (Diane Baker) on the stairs, Shela, greets him as a friend, but he does not know her. Alarmed, she flees into a sub-basement. On the street is the body of peace activist Charles Calvin (Walter Abel), who apparently jumped from his office. Stillwell returns to the stairwell, but there is no sub-basement. A man in the basement, Willard (George Kennedy), tells him to leave. At Stillwells apartment building, a stranger, Lester (Jack Weston), pulls a gun on him. He orders Stillwell to go meet "the Major" and to take his briefcase. Stillwell manages to knock out the gunman. Reporting this to the police, Stillwell is distressed by basic questions about his background. He storms out and finds a psychiatrist, Dr. Broden (Robert H. Harris). There he suddenly realizes he has no memory of anything before the two years of his present job. Broden says it is impossible to have amnesia for two years without being aware of it, and angrily throws him out. Stillwell finds a private detective, Ted Caselle (Walter Matthau), who admits that this is his first case. Skeptical at first, Caselle becomes convinced his client is not crazy when he spots Willard following them. Stillwell tries to show Caselle his office, close to Calvins, but there is only a blank wall. They go to the basement; Willard arrives and shoots at Stillwell and Caselle, but they escape. Stillwell then encounters Shela. She tells him he has something the Major wants very badly; she also claims they were previously in a relationship. She reluctantly accompanies him to see Joe Turtle, the concierge at Stillwells workplace, but Turtle has been murdered. Stillwell forces Shela to see what her associates are capable of, then they spend the night together. Stillwell wakes to find Shela gone and Lester and Willard downstairs. He disarms Lester and tries to use him as a shield, but Willard just kills Lester. Stillwell escapes once again, but then finds Caselle murdered. Stillwell has started having flashbacks. He revisits Dr. Broden: he now believes his amnesia is only two days old. Broden helps him recall more. Stillwell realizes that the memories he is recalling are false; Broden explains that his mind was trying to replace memories too painful to remember. Stillwell is not an accountant, but rather a "physio-chemist", and a protege of Calvins. Although he formerly lived in New York and owns an apartment there, for two years he has been working (in a sub-basement) under Josephson (Kevin McCarthy) in California, doing some kind of secret research. Stillwell goes to see Calvins widow. She thinks he killed Calvin, and Stillwell remembers seeing him fall. He spots a photograph of Calvin with a major, whom she names. He goes to see the Major, and finds there Willard, Josephson, and Shela, the Majors girlfriend. Stillwells memory now returns completely. He had discovered a way to "neutralize nuclear radiation"; though ostensibly for peaceful purposes, this discovery would also make the use of nuclear weapons more attractive. He went to New York to consult Calvin and found he was in business with the Major. The Major turned off the power to keep Stillwell in the building. Stillwell burned the paper describing his invention; Calvin grabbed for it and fell out the window, causing Stillwells amnesia. The Major has Willard play Russian roulette with his gun pointed at Stillwells head, but Stillwell refuses to recreate his research. Shela shoots Willard. Josephson takes her gun, but when Stillwell points out that the Major will not let Josephson live (as he knows too much about the secret project) Josephson calls the police. Stillwell and Shela embrace.
Mirage (1965 film)
1965