The University of Minnesota ice hockey head coach Herb Brooks (Kurt Russell) interviews with the United States Olympic Committee for the national team coachs job, discussing his philosophy on how to beat the Soviet team, calling for changes to the practice schedule and strategy. There is the added context that these Olympic games are occurring during the Cold War, adding a political dynamic to the USOCs efforts to beat the Russians. Brooks meets his assistant coach Craig Patrick (Noah Emmerich) at the tryouts in Colorado Springs. Brooks selects a preliminary roster of 26, indifferent to the preferences of senior USOC hockey officials. He convinces Walter Bush (Sean McCann), the executive director of the committee, that he has their best interests at heart. Bush reluctantly agrees to take the heat from the committee for Brooks decisions. During the initial practice, tempers flare as forward Rob McClanahan and defenseman Jack OCallahan get into a fight based on an old college rivalry. Brooks bluntly tells the players that they are to let go of old rivalries and start becoming a team. As practices continue, Brooks uses unorthodox methods to winnow the roster down to 20 players. The players themselves worry about being cut at any time, knowing that Brooks himself was the last player cut from the 1960 Olympic hockey team that won the gold medal, so he will do anything to win. During an exhibition game against Norway in Oslo that ends in a 3–3 tie, Brooks notices the players are distracted by girls in the stands and not playing up to their potential. After the game, he orders them back on the ice to skate "Herbies", which they do for an extended period of time even after the rink manager turns off the power. Exhausted, forward Mike Eruzione interrupts Brooks and cries out whom he plays for: The United States of America. Getting the answer he wanted all along, Brooks finally tells the players they are done. Eventually, the team comes together, with the players thinking of themselves as a family representing the United States. The team plays the Soviets in an exhibition game at Madison Square Garden. The Soviets manhandle the young American team, winning by a score of 10–3. During the game, OCallahan receives an injury that could keep him out of the entire Olympics, and starting goaltender Jim Craig is told he may be benched in favor of back-up goalie Steve Janaszak. Craig ends up retaining his starting job when the coach brings him to realize that he hasnt been giving his very best. As the 1980 Winter Olympics begins, the Americans trail Sweden 2–1 in the first game. Brooks fires up the team during the break by overturning a table in his way and accusing injured McClanahan of quitting. (Doc had said his injury wouldnt get worse if he played on it.) McClanahan ends up playing despite his pain, which inspires the team and Bill Baker scores a goal with less than a minute remaining in the third period for a dramatic 2–2 tie. They follow that up with a 7–3 win over heavily favored Czechoslovakia. As the Olympics continue, the Americans defeat Norway, Romania, and West Germany to earn a spot in the medal round. The Americans are considered overwhelming underdogs to the Soviets in the first medal round game. The game begins and the Soviets score the first goal. Then OCallahan, having healed enough from his injury, enters the game for the first time. He makes an immediate impact by heavily checking Vladimir Krutov on a play that leads to a goal by Buzz Schneider. The Soviets score again to retake the lead but in the final seconds the Soviet goalie Vladislav Tretiak stops a long shot by Dave Christian, but Mark Johnson gets the rebound and scores with less than one second left in the period. During the first intermission the Soviet coach replaces Tretiak with backup Vladimir Myshkin. In the second period the Soviets score a goal to go up 3–2. Early in the final period the Soviet team is called for a penalty, giving the Americans a man advantage. Johnson scores his second goal of the game just as the penalty is about to expire. Later, Eruzione puts them ahead 4–3 with 10 minutes left. The Americans hold off the Russians to win the game, completing one of the biggest upsets in sports history. Two days later the team would go on to defeat Finland 4–2 to win the gold medal. The movie ends with Brooks staring out over his team with pride as the entire team crowds together on the gold medal platform.
Miracle (2004 film)
2004