A police detective named Felix Detweiler visits the palatial French estate of Mister Frost, whose first name is never given, to investigate a report of a dead body. Frost, with very little prompting, cheerfully admits that he has many bodies buried in his yard. Frost is arrested and ultimately placed in an asylum, where he does not speak another word for two years. During this time the police are unable to establish his identity. The detective leaves his job and becomes obsessed with Frost and the 24 corpses dug up from his garden. Frosts long silence is broken when he encounters Sarah Day, a doctor at the asylum. Frost refuses to speak with anyone but her, then tells Day that he is, in fact, Satan. He reveals that he plans to goad her into murdering him. Detweiler believes it is true that Frost is "the devil himself" and pleads with the doctor to heed his warnings. Day naturally does not accept this, but strange things begin to happen around her and Frost demonstrates on multiple occasions feats that would be difficult to dismiss as simple sleight of hand. The turning point for Day comes when her brother, after being confined to a wheelchair for most of his life, suddenly regains use of his legs. Her patients and colleagues also begin to exhibit unnatural changes in themselves. Gradually, Day is convinced that Frost is telling the truth and, to spare others from harm, agrees to kill him. Just before shooting Frost to death, he tells Day that he now knows he is more powerful than anything or anyone in the world, and he thanks Day for believing in him. As Frost is expounding on the things that he is more powerful than, Day shoots him. She looks blankly at his body, and says in Goldblums creepiest voice, "Stronger than passing time." As Day is led away by the police, Detweiler arrives, and after seeing the look in her eyes and the fact that she is refusing to speak, he knows that she is now possessed by the devil, made possible by her murder of Mr. Frost.
Mister Frost
1990