Katniss, her sister Prim, and her friends Finnick and Gale all reluctantly adjust to a highly structured life in the underground District 13, which has been spearheading the rebellion in Panem. Feeling manipulated, Katniss eventually agrees to act as "the Mockingjay" — the symbol of the rebellion — but only on the condition that District 13s President Alma Coin grant immunity to all of the surviving Hunger Games tributes, including Katnisss friend Peeta Mellark and Finnicks lover Annie Cresta. Coin, however, insists on flipping for Katnisss other major demand - the right to personally execute Panems President Snow. Katniss and the rebels learn that Peeta is alive, though he is being tortured by the Capitol in an attempt to demoralize and control Katniss. When a rescue team succeeds in extracting him, they discover that Peeta has been brainwashed, programmed to fear and despise Katniss. After he attempts to kill her, he is kept restrained under heavy guard at all times, while medics seek a cure. A controversial strategy proposed by Gale results in a decisive victory in District 2, enabling the rebels to launch a final assault against the Capitol itself. Katniss is assigned to a squad and sent to a relatively quiet sector so that a film crew can shoot propaganda. President Coin sends Peeta along, even though he is still dangerous and unpredictable. From this, Katniss suspects Coin wants her dead because she has too much influence and has not shown much support for Coin. While they are filming in a supposedly safe Capitol neighborhood, Boggs, the teams commander, is killed. Before he dies, he puts Katniss in charge. She decides on her own to try to infiltrate the Capitol and kill Snow. Her team follows her. In the intense urban warfare that ensues, most of Katnisss comrades, including Finnick, are killed. Katniss perseveres alone. As she reaches Snows mansion, a hoverplane drops parachutes carrying bombs, some of which explode among a group of children being used as human shields around the mansion. Rebel medics (including Katnisss sister Prim) rush in to help the injured children, but in a calculated move, the rest of the bombs go off, taking a heavy toll on the medics. Prim is killed and Katniss sustains severe burns, but the rebels succeed in taking the Capitol. During her recuperation, Katniss is deeply depressed over her sisters death. When she confronts Snow, he claims that Coin orchestrated the bombing that caused Prims death, arguing that Coin made it appear to be Snows work to turn his remaining supporters against him and that, if he had had a hovercraft at his disposal, he would have used it to escape, rather than send it on a futile bombing mission. Katniss is horrified to realize that the tactic that killed the medics had been proposed earlier by Gale (though for another purpose). When Katniss confronts Gale about his possible involvement, he does not know. She becomes convinced that, rather than establishing a republic governed by representatives from each of the Districts, Coin intends to take Snows place and maintain the status quo. On the day Snow is to be executed, interim President Coin asks the remaining Hunger Games victors to vote on a proposal to hold a final Hunger Games using the children of the Capitols leaders. Katniss votes "yes—for Prim." She draws her bow, supposedly to execute Snow, but instead turns and kills Coin. She immediately attempts suicide, but Peeta stops her, and she is arrested during the ensuing riot. Afterward, Snow is found dead. Katniss is acquitted of murder by reason of insanity and sent home to District 12. Months later, Peeta and some other District 12 natives also return there. Peeta has gradually recovered the memories of his love for Katniss. Katniss embraces her love for Peeta, recognizing her need for his hope and strength. Together, they write a book to preserve the memory of those who died. Peeta still suffers flashbacks from being brainwashed, and Katniss still wakes up screaming from nightmares. In the epilogue set 20 years later, Katniss and Peeta have two children. The Hunger Games are over for good, and the children represent the hope that future generations will benefit from the sacrifices of their parents. Katniss dreads the day her children learn about their parents involvement in both the Games and the war. When she feels distressed, Katniss plays a comforting but repetitive game: reminding herself of every good thing she has ever seen someone do. The series ends with Katniss somber reflection that "There are much worse games to play."
Mockingjay
2014