Based on the "Molly: An American Girl" book series, the film is set in 1943 to 1944 during World War II. 10-year-old Molly McIntire lives in Jefferson County, Illinois with her parents and older siblings. Her father is an Army doctor. Molly is in the third grade at Willow Street School along with her best friends, Linda and Susan. In the beginning, Molly, Linda, and Susan are at the movie theater talking about how they think their teacher, Miss Campbell, is nice and pretty and they think her fiance, Lieutenant Davies, is handsome as well. The girls then go to an ice cream parlor and are disappointed that they are out of ice cream, but they decide to get cherry coke instead. As Mollys 10th birthday nears, she dreams of having princess-themed tea party for her birthday, only to be disappointed to learn that her family cant afford it. Mollys older sister Jill then says she is too immature to understand how the war changes peoples lives. As Mollys class learns about the war going on and air raid drills, Mollys father announces that he must go to London to help injured soldiers. Molly is furious that her father is leaving her and going to an unsafe city, but he comforts her by calling Molly his "North Star" and telling her to look at the stars. Molly then decides she wants to be the schools "Miss Victory" but she struggles to practice her tap dancing and Allison has been dancing since she was a toddler. Molly also gets chosen to represent her class in the school spelling bee. When Mollys mother takes a job, the girls are looked after by their neighbor Mrs. Gilford, who is stern and obsessed with her son who is in the Navy. Soon after, the McIntires must take in a British girl named Emily Bennett who is the same age as Molly. At first, Emily is very shy and Molly doesnt want to live with her but Jill insists she must. After being peppered with too many questions about her home in London, Emily lies to Linda & Susan by saying that her parents were of royalty and she lived in "Bennett Manor." When Emily wakes up in the midst of a nightmare, she confesses to Molly that her father is a bus driver, her mother has died and she lived in a small apartment above a candy shop and was not rich or royal. Molly forgives her. When Molly sees her mother baking a casserole for Mrs. Gilford, she learns that her son had been killed at war and feels empathetic toward her. Not long after, Miss Campbells fiance had also been killed. In the end of the movie, Molly and Emily both win the spelling bee and Molly is chosen to be Miss Victory. She also is very ecstatic to learn that her father is still alive and only wounded in his leg.
Molly: An American Girl on the Home Front
2008