Molly Bloom is world-class mogul skier with Olympic aspirations, the result of years of enforced training from her overbearing father. In a qualifying event for the 2002 Winter Olympics, Molly is severely injured, ending her career. Instead of following her original plan of attending law school, Molly decides to take a year off and move to Los Angeles. Once she arrives, she becomes a bottle-service waitress at a club, where she meets Dean, an ostentatious but unsuccessful real estate developer. She becomes his office manager, and he soon involves her in running his underground poker games. Many famous and wealthy individuals, such as movie stars, investment bankers, and sports players are involved in Deans game. Molly earns large sums of money on tips alone. Molly is initially uninformed on poker topics, but quickly learns how to appeal to the players to gain tips. In particular, she hopes to please the most successful player, Player X, by attracting new players to the game. Dean, upon seeing that Molly is becoming increasingly independent in running the games, attempts to control her, and then fires her. Molly, having gained the contacts through years of running the game, decides to create her own poker games. She rents a penthouse at a hotel, and hires a staff to help her run games. Additionally, she contacts employees at clubs and casinos to try and spread word about her poker games. Player X, along with many other players, decide to leave Deans games to play for Molly. Molly becomes increasingly successful, gaining more money while being pressured by Player X to raise the stakes for her games. Harlan Eustice, a skilled, conservative and successful player, joins Mollys table. One night, after accidentally losing a hand to the notorious worst player in Mollys circle, Harlan becomes increasingly compulsive, suffering heavy losses; later, Molly finds out that Player X, who enjoys ruining peoples lives more than the game itself, has been funding Harlan to keep him in the game. After Molly berates him for his unethical actions, Player X decides to change venue for his games, and the other players join him, leaving Molly. Molly moves to New York, with the hope of beginning a new underground poker game. After reaching out to many wealthy New Yorkers, Molly finds enough players for several weekly games. Despite continuous success, she is unable to cover her losses when players cannot pay. Her dealer convinces her to begin taking a percentage of large pots, allowing her to recuperate her potential losses, but making her game an illegal gambling operation. One of her Los Angeles players is indicted for running a Ponzi scheme; Molly is investigated and questioned as to who attended her games. At this time, Molly becomes increasingly addicted to drugs as the games have increasingly taken their toll. Her players also begin to include wealthy individuals from the Russian mafia, among others. She is approached by several Italian mafia members, who offer their services to extort money from non-paying players. After she declines, she is attacked in her home, where she is held at gunpoint and her mothers life is threatened. As she is about to return to her poker games, the FBI conducts a raid, a result of Douglas Downey, one of her players, acting as an informant. Mollys assets are seized, and she returns home to live with her mother. Two years later, Molly has published a book where she names few individuals that played in her games, and has recently moved out. She is arrested by the FBI, and indicted for involvement in illegal gambling with the mafia. She enlists the help of Charlie Jaffey, a high-profile and expensive lawyer in New York, who agrees to help after he learns that Molly has been protecting innocent people who were affected by her poker games. While in New York awaiting trial, Mollys father, Larry, seeks her out, and attempts to reconcile with her. He admits that he was overbearing, and that he treated Molly differently than her brothers because she had known about his affairs. Charlie reads Mollys book, and becomes interested in helping her case, as he feels she has not committed serious enough wrongdoing to merit a prison term. Charlie negotiates a deal for Molly to receive no sentence and her money returned in exchange for her hard drives and digital records from gambling. Molly declines this deal, fearing for the information about her players that would be released, and pleads guilty. The judge, arguing that she had committed no serious crimes, sentences her to community service, probation, and a $200,000 fine.
Molly's Game
2017