Dr. Donald Blake (Arthur Franz) is a science professor at Dunsford University. When his student Jimmy (Troy Donahue) delivers the coelacanth that Blake has purchased, Jimmy asks Blake if the fish is really a million years old. Blake replies, "Its the species thats old. No change in millions of years. See, the coelacanth is a living fossil, immune to the forces of evolution. Thats whats so remarkable about it." Blake lectures his students about evolution and devolution, telling them that man is the only creature that can decide whether to move forwards or backwards, and that "unless we learn to control the instincts weve inherited from our ape-like ancestors, the race is doomed." Inside the lab, Blake moves the partially-thawed coelacanth into the freezer. He lifts the fish, putting one hand inside its mouth. Blake scratches himself on its teeth and then accidentally sticks the same hand into the pool of water and blood in the container which held the fish. Molly Riordan (Helen Westcott) assistant to Dr. Cole Oliver (Whit Bissell), is with Blake and offers him a ride home. When they get to Mollys car, Blake says he doesnt feel well and passes out. At Blakes house, Molly is attacked by person or persons unknown. A short time later Madeline Howard (Joanna Moore) - Blakes fiancee and daughter of Dr. Gilbert Howard (Alexander Lockwood), president of the university - arrives and finds the house in shambles and Blake, lying on the ground, moaning. Then they see Molly - dead, eyes wide open, hanging by her hair in a tree. Madeline calls the police. Detective Lt. Mike Stevens (Judson Pratt) and Detective Sgt. Eddie Daniels (Ross Elliott) arrive. They find a huge "deformed" hand print on a window and Blakes tie clasp in Mollys dead hand. They take Blake down to the station when he says he cant remember anything after getting into Mollys car. Stevens releases Blake after concluding that someone with a grudge against him is trying to implicate him in Mollys murder. He assigns Daniels as Blakes bodyguard and tells Blake that Mollys autopsy shows she died of fright. Later, working in his lab, Blake shoos away a dragonfly that has landed on the coelacanth. He thinks nothing of it, but the dragonfly later returns, now grown to two feet in length. Jimmy and his girlfriend Sylvia (Nancy Walters) are also in the lab, and Blake and Jimmy try to catch the giant insect in a net when it again lands on the coelacanth. Blake stabs the dragonfly, killing it. But when he examines the dragonfly at his desk, he doesnt notice that a bit of its blood has dripped into his pipe. Lighting up, he notices the odd flavor, but smokes anyway. He immediately feels ill. As the dragonfly shrinks back to its normal size, a large, hairy hand reaches out from where Blake is sitting and squashes the insect. Then someone trashes Blakes lab and kills Daniels. The police find huge footprints near Daniels body and conclude that the footprints and the handprints are from the same maniac. Blake learns that the coelacanth, which has been preserved by gamma rays, has blood plasma which, if it gets into the bloodstream of an animal or person, causes them to temporarily revert to a more primitive stage of being. Only then does he realize that when he scratched his hand on the fishs teeth, he might have gotten a dose of irradiated plasma himself. If he has, then he has been reverting to the homicidal caveman, a throwback with large hands and feet, dark skin, heavy body hair and prominent brow ridges. Blake decides to take a few days off at Dr. Howards cabin in the hills. But Blake isnt there for rest and relaxation. Instead, he plans to experiment on himself, to learn whether he is actually the caveman. He rigs the cabin with two cameras on trip wires to record whatever happens during the experiment. He injects himself with coelacanth plasma and transforms into the caveman. He wrecks the room, tripping the trip wires and photographing himself. Then he picks up an axe and runs outside. Madeline speeds toward the cabin but runs off the road when the caveman suddenly appears in her cars headlights. Shes knocked out in the crash. The caveman is just about to carry her off when the local forest ranger (Richard H. Cutting) arrives. The caveman chases the ranger away. The ranger goes back to his office and phones the Dunsford police for help, then grabs his gun and goes after the caveman alone. The caveman carries the still unconscious Madeline into the forest, with the ranger in pursuit. When Madeline comes to, she struggles with the caveman. When she breaks free, the ranger shoots the caveman, but the caveman throws his axe, killing the ranger. Madeline runs to the cabin. The caveman collapses. But then Blake, once again himself, returns to the cabin. He develops a photo and shows it to Madeline, who doesnt seem to understand and asks why the caveman is wearing Blakes clothes. Lt. Stevens, Detective Sgt. Powell (Phil Harvey) and Dr. Howard arrive at the cabin. Blake tells them that he not only knows who the murderer is, but where to find him. Out in the woods, he explains to Howard what his experiment proved and injects himself with coelacanth plasma. Again transformed into the caveman, he chases Howard, forcing the two detectives to shoot him. As the caveman lies dying or dead on the ground, he slowly changes back into Blake.
Monster on the Campus
1958