Joan Prescott (Joan Crawford) is a vacuous and flirtatious daughter of the wealthy Montana rancher, John Prescott (Lloyd Ingraham). On the train, Joans sister, Elizabeth (Dorothy Sebastian) tells her shes in love with Jeff (Ricardo Cortez). Jeff is more smitten with Joan and kisses her. Joan then impulsively gets off at the next whistle stop, where she meets Larry (Johnny Mack Brown), a Texas cowboy. He is a rancher on John Prescotts land, and does not know who Joan is. He expresses dismay at how spoiled Prescotts daughters are. Joan conceals her identity, refusing to say her name. She tells him to think of something he loves and call her that, and he chooses "Montana." Joan and Larry fall for one another and are married. When they return to her fathers ranch, the couple are nervous that he will not approve of the pairing. However, to their surprise, John Prescott is delighted for the couple and believes Larry is the kind of person who can finally settle Joan. At their party,celebrating their nuptials, Joan sees Jeff, with whom Joan does a daring dance. As they finish dancing, Joan and Jeff share a lingering kiss. After Jeff and Larry come to blows, Joan is embarrassed that Larry resorted to violence. As Joan became familiar with Larrys posse of cowboy friends, she wants Larry to be accustomed to her group of highbrow city friends who are in Montana with John Prescott. She wants to go back to New York where the couple can live comfortably, but Larry feels it is his duty as a husband to provide for his wife and having her father take care of him is not an option. Later at another party, Larry catches Jeff trying to make another move on Joan, and the married couple get into a fight. In a fit of rage, she tells Larry that marrying him was the greatest mistake of her life and tells him to leave her alone. As he is walking away, she realizes her mistake and begs to be forgiven, but he rebuffs her. Even John Prescott advises him to forgive her, but Larry sees too many differences between the two to make the marriage work. With the marriage over and Larry refusing to speak to Joan, the Prescotts—Joan in tow—decide to take the train back to New York. En route, the train is held up by masked cowboys, who take Joan as their only hostage. However, the whole robbery is a rouse and one of the masked cowboys is Larry who has come to take Joan back to their new life.
Montana Moon
1930