After blacking out from an all-night drinking binge, dock worker Bobo (Jean Gabin) wakes up in a decrepit shack on a San Pedro Bay barge. Hes hired to sell bait by the barge owner and fisherman Takeo (Victor Sen Yung) who informs him that local bar-fly Pop Kelly (Arthur Aylesworth) was strangled to death the night before. Despite assurances from his friend Tiny (Thomas Mitchell) that he didnt hurt anyone during his blackout, Bobo worries that he may have killed the man, due to violence in his past. That night he plans to leave town but ends up rescuing Anna (Ida Lupino), who tries to drown herself in the surf. Anna spends the night in the barge while Bobo sleeps on the floor. Although Bobo appears to have fallen for Anna, he once again sets out to leave town at the behest of Tiny, who wants to travel north for a job in San Francisco. Before he can go, Bobo helps repair the boat of a wealthy doctor (Jerome Cowan) and his mistress (Helene Reynolds). Anna returns to the barge to thank him and tell him her dream of settling down and creating a home, like the cozy barge across the bay. Tiny intervenes, calling Anna a "hash slinger" (slang for prostitute). Bobo leaves Anna and tries to spend time with Mildred (Robin Raymond), a prostitute he met during his drunken melee, but he cant stop thinking about Anna. Bobo and Anna decide to settle down, buying paint and fabric to fix up the shack. Tiny once again interferes, accosting Anna and implying that he and Bobo have a history together. He tries to blackmail Bobo into going with him up north. The town watchman and philosopher Nutsy (Claude Rains) acts as a voice of reason, befriending both Bobo and Anna and encouraging their partnership. Bobo and Anna get married on the barge. Dr. Reynolds sails by during the wedding and asks Bobo to once again help him fix his boat. Bobo agrees and they set off, leaving Anna alone. His happy married state encourages the doctor to leave his mistress and return to his wife. On the barge, Anna opens a gift from Bobo—a gaudy revealing dress, once owned by Mildred. Nutsy assures her that wives should leave modesty out of married life and Anna dons the dress, preparing for Bobos return. After Nutsy leaves Anna, Tiny shows up on the barge, drunk and angry that he wasnt invited to the wedding since Bobo has cut off contact with him. Tiny threatens Anna with rape and attacks her. When Bobo returns, he finds Anna in the tackle box, badly injured. He takes her to the hospital and Dr. Reynolds promises to do he can for her. Bobo, realizing that Tiny is the one who killed Pop, confronts him on the water-break. Bobo stalks him while Tiny professes his innocence. Tiny climbs onto the rocks and is swept away by a wave. After some time has passed, Bobo carries Anna, who is better but unable to walk, into their home on the barge. Hes painted it and fixed it up so it looks like a house. Their favorite song plays as he carries her inside.
Moontide
1942