The evil Outworld emperor Shao Kahn opens a portal to Earthrealm (Earth) and has resurrected his queen Sindel, Princess Kitanas long-deceased mother. Earthrealm is therefore in danger of being absorbed into Outworld within six days, a fate which reigning Mortal Kombat champion Liu Kang and the other Earthrealm heroes must fight to prevent. When Kahn kills Johnny Cage during a confrontation with the thunder god and Earthrealm protector Raiden, and the remaining Earthrealm warriors must regroup and find a way to defeat Shao Kahn. An emotionally distraught Sonya Blade enlists the help of her Special Forces partner, Jax. Together they destroy Cyrax, and Sonya beats Mileena. Kitana and Liu search for a Native American shaman named Nightwolf, who seemingly knows the key to defeating Kahn. Kitana and Liu destroy the robotic ninja Smoke with the aid of Sub-Zero, but Scorpion suddenly appears, attacks Sub-Zero, and kidnaps Kitana. Meanwhile, Raiden meets with the Elder Gods and asks them why Kahn was allowed to break the tournament rules and force his way into Earthrealm, and how he can be stopped. The answers he receives are sparse and ambiguous; one says that reuniting Kitana with her mother, Sindel, is the key to breaking Kahns hold on Earthrealm, but another Elder God insists that the defeat of Kahn himself is the solution. Raiden is then asked by the Elder Gods about his feelings and obligations towards the mortals, and what he would be willing to do to ensure their survival. Liu finds Nightwolf, who teaches him about the power of the Animality, a form of shapeshifting which utilizes the casters strengths and abilities. To achieve the mindset needed to acquire this power, Liu must pass his tests. The first is a trial of his self-esteem and focus. The second comes in the form of temptation, which manifests itself in the form of Jade, a mysterious warrior who attempts to seduce Liu and offers her assistance after he resists her advances. Liu accepts Jades offer and takes her with him to the Elder Gods temple, where he and his friends are to meet Raiden. The third test is never revealed. At the temple, the Earthrealm warriors reunite with a newly shorn Raiden, who reveals that he has sacrificed his immortality to freely fight alongside them. Together, they head for Outworld to rescue Kitana and reunite her with the undead Sindel in hopes of restoring her soul and closing the Outworld portal to Earth. With Jades help, Liu rescues Kitana, while the others find Sindel. However, Sindel remains under Kahns control and escapes during an ambush, while Jade reveals herself to be a double agent sent by Kahn to disrupt the heroes plans. Raiden then reveals that Shao Kahn is his brother, and that the former Elder God Shinnok is their father. He realizes that Shinnok had lied to him and is supporting Kahn. With renewed purpose, Raiden and the Earthrealm warriors make their way to the final showdown with Kahn and his remaining generals Motaro and Ermac, along with Sindel. Shinnok demands that Raiden submit to him and restore their broken family, at the expense of his mortal friends. Raiden refuses and is killed by an energy blast from Shao Kahn. After a hard fight, Jax, Sonya, and Kitana emerge victorious over Kahns generals, but Liu struggles with Kahn, and his Animality barely proves effective, exposing a cut to Kahn that proves he is now mortal. Shinnok, who explains that these are the consequences for breaking the sacred rules, attempts to intervene and kill Liu on Kahns behalf, but two of the Elder Gods arrive, having uncovered Shinnoks treachery. They declare that the fate of Earth shall be decided in Mortal Kombat. Liu finally defeats Kahn, and Shinnok is banished to the Netherrealm. Earthrealm reverts to its former state, and with Kahns hold over Sindel finally broken, she reunites with Kitana. Raiden is revived by the other Elder Gods, who bestow upon him his fathers former position. With everything right in the universe once again, the Earthrealm warriors return home.
Mortal Kombat: Annihilation
1997