Tom opens a delivered box and finds a book on how to catch mice and for the rest of the cartoon, he takes its advice to attempt to catch Jerry. The first thing the book suggests is to locate the mouse. Tom finds Jerry reading the book with him, but when he tries to grab Jerry, the mouse steps off the book and slams Toms nose in it. Tom sets out a simple mouse trap. Jerry, however, succeeds in freeing the cheese without setting the trap off. Shocked at the traps failure, Tom tests it, and the trap snaps as soon as he touches it. Tom then sets a snare trap around a piece of cheese and gets ready to pull the string but is distracted by a bowl of cream substituted for the cheese by Jerry. Jerry activates the trap, sending the cat out to the tree himself. Practicing the "A Curious Mouse is Easy to Catch" chapter, Tom sits outside Jerrys mousehole reading the book and loudly laughs at it but denies Jerry any chance to see it. When Jerry climbs onto the book to see it, Tom slams it shut on him. But when Tom grabs him, Jerry pulls the same trick on him with his fists, punching Tom in the eye. Tom corners Jerry and, after reading the passage in the book "A cornered mouse never fights", pounces on him but Jerry fights back and beats Tom. Bruised and battered, Tom sticks his head around the corner and eerily drones "Dont you believe it!" - a cultural reference to the distinctive jingle on the 1940s radio show Dont You Believe it! At this point, Tom stops reading from chapter-to-chapter and tries suggestions he thinks will work. Upon reading Chapter VII: "Be scientific in your approach", Tom uses a stethoscope to listen for Jerry within the walls of the house. This backfires when Jerry screams into the stethoscope, almost deafening Tom. Tom then forces a double-barreled shotgun into Jerrys mousehole. However, the barrels protrude out of the wall and point straight at Toms head as the cat fires and ends up razing his head, forcing him to wear a dodgy orange toupee for the rest of the cartoon. In the next scene, Tom sets a bear trap and slides it into the mousehole. Jerry walks outside from another hole behind Tom and puts the trap behind him, which triggers as Tom sits down and sends him flying into the ceiling in pain. Tom then tries to use a mallet to flatten Jerry, but Jerry pops out of a hole behind a picture right above Tom, grabs the mallet, and hits him. Tom then attempts to disguise himself in a gift box. Jerry, seeing the box, knocks on it, hearing no response. Inexplicably, Jerry proceeds to impale the box with pins while Tom whimpers and groans in pain before sawing the box in half. Still hearing nothing, Jerry eagerly looks inside the box but just as quickly pulls his head out. Horror-stricken, he gulps and displays a sign reading "IS THERE A DOCTOR IN THE HOUSE?" Now covered in bandages, Tom winds up a female toy mouse which repeatedly says "come up and see me some time". Jerry, noticing the toy, walks with it. Tom attempts to lure Jerry into a mouse-sized pretend hotel which is named "cozy arms", the door of which leads into Toms open mouth. Jerry ushers the toy mouse into the hotel first, which causes Tom to eat it (shattering his teeth in the process). After inspecting his ruined teeth in a mirror, Tom smashes it in rage and brutally tears the book to shreds, all the while hiccupping "come up and see me some time" since the toys voice box is stuck in his throat. Having gone mad with revenge, Tom attempts to blow away Jerry with dozens of explosives (TNT, gunpowder, dynamite and a massive block buster that resembles the atom bomb Fat Man). When Tom ignites a piece of dynamite cautiously, it doesnt start the fuse enough, so he blows the fuse too hard. This causes the fuse to be fired immediately and Tom fatally dies while the explosives erupt. Nothing remains of the house except Jerry (who survived after the explosion) and his mousehole. Jerry looks up and saw a fed-up Tom, now in spirit form, is seen on a cloud floating to heaven, repeatedly hiccuping "come up and see me some time"
Mouse Trouble
1944