Ann (Carole Lombard) and David Smith (Robert Montgomery) are a married couple living in New York City who, though happy, have fights that last for days before they reconcile. One morning, Ann asks David if he would marry her again if he had it to do over. Although he says he is very happy with her now and wouldnt marry anyone else, he says he would not. Later that day, Harry Deever (Charles Halton), an Idaho county official, informs David at work that due to a jurisdictional mishap, their three-year-old marriage license from Idaho is not valid. Since Deever is a family acquaintance of Anns from Idaho, he stops by their apartment to tell Ann and her mother (Esther Dale) the same thing. Ann does not mention this to David. She believes he will remarry her that very night when he invites her to a romantic dinner at a fancy restaurant they frequented before they were married. When they arrive at the restaurant, it has declined in quality and become rundown, and they return home. Ann grows impatient and confronts David, accusing him of not wanting to marry her again. David protests and claims he was going to ask her shortly, but Ann dismisses him and kicks him out of their apartment. David spends the night at his club, but when he goes home after work the next day Anns maid refuses him entry. David waits in the lobby and sees Ann return with an older gentleman. Believing the man is her suitor, David becomes angry and disheartened. He follows Ann and threatens to withhold support. He gets her fired from her new job (the older gentleman is not her suitor, but her new boss). Ann tells David she has no intention of ever marrying him again. Davids friend and law partner, Jefferson "Jeff" Custer (Gene Raymond), tells David he will talk to Ann and persuade her to remarry. However, when David arrives that evening, he finds that Jeff has instead agreed to legally represent Ann. Jeff asks Ann to dinner the following night in Davids presence. David tells Ann that if she agrees to the date their marriage is over, but Ann accepts the invitation. After dinner, Ann and Jeff go to the 1939 New York Worlds Fair, but they become stuck on the parachute ride and are exposed to hours of rain many feet up in the air. When they get back to Jeffs apartment, he plans to put on dry clothes and return to the fair, but Ann feeds the teetotaler "medicinal" liquor ostensibly to prevent a cold, and he becomes drunk. Ann returns home. Ann and Jeff begin to date seriously, and Ann meets Jeffs parents. They decide to take a vacation with Jeffs parents at a Lake Placid skiing resort — the same resort where Ann and David had earlier been planning to holiday. Upon arriving at the resort, they find that David has rented a cabin next to theirs. When confronted, David faints. David pretends to be sick and delirious while Ann fawns over him. When Ann discovers his deception, she becomes furious. While they argue heatedly, Jeff walks in. He knows Ann and David are meant for each other when Ann tries to manipulate him into fighting David. Ann decides she wants to get away to the lodge by ski, even though she does not know how to ski. David offers to help her put on her skis, but instead places her in a position that prevents her from standing up. As she struggles and threatens him, she frees one foot, but then feigns helplessness by reattaching the ski. David realizes her pretense, and silences her ranting by kissing her.
Mr. & Mrs. Smith (1941 film)
1941