Wealthy Congresswoman Margaret Wyndham Chase wants to run for governor of an unnamed state and needs the help of a political boss named Eddie Ace to stand a chance of making it all the way. In an attempt to grease him, she invites him to a dinner where also her other powerful friends will be attending. Margaret has another problem. Her husband, Pembroke Chase III, wants a divorce, but she wants to keep up appearances until the governors election is over. She refuses to sign the document he lays before her. Chase threatens her by saying he will try to ruin her campaign if she doesnt comply with his wish. She, in turn, threatens to reveal his many affairs to the public. Chase tries to ruin the dinner by bad-talking Margaret in front of the others. He gets support from Ace, who believes that beautiful women should stay away from politics. Even Margarets friend, political science professor Joshua Adams, wants Ace to stop her from running for governor. Adams says he isnt opposed to women in politics but doesnt want Margaret to do it, and believes that she needs more "heart" to be a truly great governor. Ace introduces Chase to his cronies, The Tomahawk Club, and she charms them all. Later they have a date and Ace begins to fall for Ace. Adams asks Ace to prevent Margaret from being elected, even though he believes that she would make a good governor if she learned to use her heart. Margaret isnt discouraged by this, but decides to work harder on changing the mens views. She meets with Ace and Adams again to discuss politics, and afterwards she asks Ace to drive her to her house in the country. Ace complies and ends up kissing her goodnight, even though he refuses to change his mind about the governor issue. Margaret continues to scheme to persuade Ace to help her. She talks to one of Aces employees, Toomey, and convinces him to help her. With his help, Margaret is finally nominated to run for governor. But Chase puts gravel in the machinery by forcing her to divorcing him, claiming that she has had an extramarital affair with Ace. He also claims Ace will testify to what happened at the country house. This makes Margaret pull out of the race entirely and agree to the divorce. Adams and Ace decide to host an independent party to support Margaret as a new, reformed candidate. Adams ask Margaret to run on a special issue opposing machine politics, and she agrees. With thos support behind her, Margaret wins the election. She is unaware that she got the support of Ace in the run. When Margaret meets Ace after the race, she promises to be the best governor possible, and they kiss to seal the deal.
Mr. Ace
1946