New York theater producer Alex Conway (Charles Coburn) travels with composer Paul Merrick (Bing Crosby) to Lawford College, Pauls alma mater, where one of his musicals is being revived by the students. The current campus hero is handsome athlete Jefferson Blake (Robert Stack) so Katherine Holbrook (Nancy Olson), class valedictorian and chairman of the welcoming committee for returning alumni, asks Paul to work in a phrase about Jeff in one of his songs. Paul balks at the suggestion, but Kates matter-of-fact manner leaves no room for discussion. Paul is persuaded to take part in the show and he sings "And Youll Be Home". Lawrence Welks champagne lady, Norma Zimmer sings the obligato while sitting next to Bing during the song. After the show, Paul and Alex return to New York, and although Paul is broke, he would rather play golf than work. When he asks Alex for a $15,000 advance against his next musical, which Alex intends to produce with financing from multi-millionaire Tippy Carpenter (Donald Woods), Alex agrees on condition that Paul take on a secretary, who will make sure that he works and will not squander the money. Paul laughingly accepts, but has second thoughts when he finds that Alex has hired the ever-serious Kate. Kate continually hounds him to work, but Paul snubs her efforts so that he can play golf and entertain Lorna Marvis (Ruth Hussey) his girlfriend. Frustrated by her lack of success, Kate, an aspiring psychiatrist, accuses Paul of being afraid of failure. Paul intends to fire Kate, but feels guilty because he would be breaking his agreement with Alex. Lorna announces her intention to marry Tippy for his money. Paul then discovers that Kate and her Aunt Amy (Ida Moore) have moved into the guest room of his penthouse apartment. Paul gets to work composing a new score, and when Jeff comes to town, Paul encourages him to take Kate out. For the first time, Jeff sees Kates charms and kisses her, even though it means breaking training. However, Kate discovers that she is more interested in Paul, who is older, than in Jeff. After three weeks, Paul throws a party to celebrate the fact that he has written eight songs and completed the score for the musical revue, Mr. Music. The day after the party, Jeff tells Paul that he is losing competitions because he cannot stop thinking about Kate, even though he knows Kate is in love with Paul. Paul is surprised to hear about Kates feelings, and when Lorna returns to him and they become engaged, he tells Kate about Jeffs visit, and that she should pursue someone closer to her own age. Kate is devastated and plans to quit, but refrains when she learns that Tippy has pulled his money from the show. Aunt Amy tries to interest her wealthy friend, Jerome Thisbee, (Richard Haydn using the pseudonym Claud Curdle) in backing the show, but Alex and Paul are disappointed when Thisbee offers only $300, not the $300,000 they need. Kate then announces her plan to return to graduate school, but instead returns to Lawford after Pauls butler, "Cupcake" Haggerty (Tom Ewell), brings news that the Friars Club has agreed to help them. Some time later, Paul brings Alex to Lawford to let him in on the surprise: The college students, aided by name performers such as comedian Groucho Marx, Metropolitan Opera singer Dorothy Kirsten, dancers Marge and Gower Champion, who portray themselves along with the singing group The Merry Macs, have put on Mr. Music for the benefit of several potential backers. Although the backers refuse to finance the show with Alex as producer, Thisbee comes through with a certified check for $300,000. Lorna, who realizes she is more interested in money than Paul, ends their engagement and asks Kate to return the ring. As Kate has rejected Jeff, who is back on a winning streak, she asks Paul if she can keep the ring, and when he consents, they become engaged.
Mr. Music
1950