Daniel Hillard is a freelance voice actor in San Francisco. Though a devoted father to his children Lydia, Chris, and Natalie, his wife Miranda considers him unreliable. One day, Daniel quits his job and returns home to throw a lavish birthday party for Chris despite Mirandas objections, creating a situation with their neighbors. Miranda files for divorce, and the judge gives sole custody of the children to her, but tells Daniel if he can find a steady job and a suitable residence within three months, he will agree to share joint custody. Daniel works to rebuild his life, getting a menial job at a local television station, and learns that Miranda is seeking a housekeeper to watch over the children. He secretly alters her classified ad form to keep other interested people away, and then uses his voice acting skills to call Miranda about the job, making them all undesirable applicants. He then calls Miranda as a Scottish-accented nanny, whom he calls Mrs. Euphegenia Doubtfire, with strong credentials. Miranda is impressed and invites her for an interview. Daniel gets help from his brother Frank, a makeup artist, and Franks partner Jack, to create a Mrs. Doubtfire persona, including a prosthetic mask to make him appear as an older woman. Miranda hires Mrs. Doubtfire after the impressive interview. Upon returning to the apartment, Mrs Doubtfire is met by Mrs. Sellner, Daniels court liaison, hoping to see Daniel and carry out her inspection of the apartment. This results in Daniel changing back and to from Mrs. Doubtfire and himself to meet Mrs. Sellners needs, which ultimately leads at one point to Daniels mask flying out the window, where it is flattened by a rubbish truck. He cleverly conceals his face by donning a "facial mask" from cake frosting in his fridge. Frank and Jack quickly make him a new and slightly older mask. The children initially struggle with Mrs. Doubtfires ways, but soon come around and thrive, and further, Miranda learns to become closer with her children. Daniel, as Mrs. Doubtfire, learns several household skills as part of the role, further improving himself. However, this has created another barrier for Daniel to see his children, as Miranda has put more trust into Mrs. Doubtfire than him, and she could never dismiss her. One day, Lydia and Chris discover Daniels ploy, and while thrilled to have their father back, agree to keep his secret. While working at the station, Daniel is seen by the stations CEO Jonathan Lundy playing with toy dinosaurs on the set of a cancelled childrens show. Impressed by his voice acting and imagination, Lundy asks Daniel to join him for a dinner at Bridges Restaurant to discuss giving him his own childrens show to host. Daniel discovers this is to be on the same night and time as a planned birthday dinner for Miranda by her new boyfriend Stu Dunmire at the same restaurant, to which Mrs. Doubtfire has also been invited. Unable to change either appointment, Daniel decides to try to rotate in and out of the Mrs. Doubtfire outfit to attend both events. As the dinners progress, a drunken Daniel starts making mistakes after changing in and out of costume, from which he quickly recovers. Stu starts choking on his dinner, and Daniel, as Mrs. Doubtfire, gives him the Heimlich maneuver. The action causes the prosthetic mask to peel half off his face, revealing his identity, and horrifying Miranda. At their next custody hearing, Daniel explains about how he met the judges requirements as well as his actions. However, Miranda is awarded full custody of the children, with Daniel limited to supervised visitation every Saturday, much to his and even Mirandas dismay. Without Mrs. Doubtfire, Miranda and her children become miserable, recognizing how much Mrs. Doubtfire improved their lives. They are surprised when the local station starts a new childrens show "Euphegenias House" which Daniel, as Mrs. Doubtfire, hosts. The show becomes a hit and starts airing across the country. Miranda visits Daniel after one recording and admits they were happier when he was involved, and agrees to change the custody rights. Soon after, Miranda is able to hire Daniel as the childrens new babysitter, allowing him to see them every day after school—essentially what he was able to do as Mrs. Doubtfire. As Daniel takes the kids out, Miranda watches an episode of Euphegenias House where Mrs. Doubtfire answers a letter from a young girl whose parents have separated, saying no matter what arrangements families have, love will prevail.
Mrs. Doubtfire
1993