In 1956 at a home in Madrid, Spain, house cat Lightning is playing Espana Cani with a guitar as Jerry, known in this cartoon as El Magnífico (Spanish for "The Magnificent"), comes dancing out of his hole and brings back a small wedge of cheese. The Spanish owner of the house (Joan) comes in the room, sees Jerry, and taps her foot impatiently at Lightning to have him chase Jerry. He unsuccessfully pursues Jerry by slamming a table leg, smashing into a tabletop and his guitar on the couch where he left it, destroying it in the process. The poor cat, head poking through his guitar, proclaims that "absolutely no one can catch El Magnifico", to which Joan responds that he is just being lazy. She then hands over a telegram which says "Arriving today from U.S.A., Guarantee to catch mouse (El Magnífico)....Tom, Olympic, U.S. and World Champion Mouse Catcher." Tom arrives at the door with numerous medals and trophies. Joan later on leaves for town but not before snubbing Lightning in comparison to Tom. Lightning shows Jerry to Tom by snabbing his guitars spirit, a red Flying V into him, while Jerry walks back into his hole carrying a banana. Tom uses a stethoscope to detect Jerry in the wall, marks the spot (X), uses a brace to drill a hole in the spot, and then pulls the mouse out with a fireplace blower. The cat stuffs Jerry into a small cannon, lights it, and opens the door for the mouse as he is thrown out of the house. However, Jerry pops right back in through a small door panel at the bottom of the door. Enraged, Tom kicks him out a second time, only for him to enter the house again through one of the doors higher panels. As he is coming close to the his hole, Tom begins to flamenco along with him around the room, hoping to trap and get him out for good. However, Jerry directs the dance to a nearby window, which Tom falls out of, then down into a fountain. Tom comes back into the house and chases Jerry who dons a torero garb, ready for a bullfight. He makes a beeline for the mouse and misses as Jerry eggs him on by saying "Haha!, Toro!, Cmon!", while Lightning cheers "¡Ole!" with progressively higher emotion. Toms unsuccessful lunges lead him crashing into a table with a small piece of pottery falling over his head and sliding into Jerrys hole. On the final lunge, the cat simply disappears into the cape as Jerry holds it out. After showing there is nothing on either side of it, Jerry hurls Tom out of the cape, and then plays guitar on Toms whiskers. Jerry then runs in circles around the floor, causing Tom to run frantically, and wrap himself up. Joan is surprised to find Lightning and Tom playing guitar. Lightning responds, "Señorita, I told you: No one, but no one, can catch El Magnífico!". Tom replies affirmatively with fluent Spanish and both continue their guitar playing, as Joan sees Jerry pushing some fruits into his hole.
Mucho Mouse
1956