Herman Munster (Fred Gwynne) and his wife, Lily (Yvonne De Carlo) learn from Cavanaugh Munsters will that they have inherited an English manor known as Munster Hall in Shroudshire, England, and that Herman has inherited the designation Lord of the Manor as "Lord Munster". The family boards the famous American transatlantic passenger ocean liner SS United States (in its last years) to England. Herman gets seasick, Marilyn (Debbie Watson, replacing TV series original player Pat Priest in a controversial move) encounters a new love and suitor Roger Moresby (Robert Pine). Grandpa (Al Lewis) gets turned into a grey wolf upon accidentally consuming a wolf pill. Grandpa has to be sneaked through British immigration and customs. Cousins Grace (Jeanne Arnold) and Freddie (Terry-Thomas) are furious that the American Munsters are getting the manor, and that Herman will be Lord Munster instead of Freddie. Grace and Freddie, with the help of Lady Effigie (Hermione Gingold), try to get rid of the Munsters, so the estate can be theirs. The American Munster couple feels right at home when Hermans English relatives try to scare them. Freddie disguises himself as a ghost, but screams and runs away when he encounters Herman. Grandpa sneaks out of bed to find out the secret of Munster Hall: a counterfeiting operation is at work in the basement. Later, Herman enters a race, driving Grandpas custom dragster, the "DRAG-U-LA". Grace and Freddie attempt to interfere with him winning the race, by setting up a plot to kill him. Herman wins the race with the help of Lily. The British Munsters, including their butler, Cruikshank (John Carradine) are all exposed and apprehended by the police authorities. Herman captures Freddie and Grace by tossing tires on them. Lady Effigie is sent to Shroudshires police station with her butler by Lily and Eddie (Butch Patrick). Herman and his family donate the land and Munster Hall to the city for historic preservation. Roger and Marilyn get together and hope to see each other again. Herman and his family head for their American home.
Munster, Go Home!
1966