Several cats are working out with weights on a busy day at Muscle Beach. Tom and his girlfriend arrive on a date and Tom carelessly dumps their equipment on top of a sunbathing Jerry. An annoyed Jerry ignores the cat, until Tom happens to stick his parasol through Jerrys towel, ripping it, and throws his discarded food onto Jerry. Fed up, Jerry marches up to Tom and slaps him with a banana peel, and is rewarded by being inflated into a balloon by Tom, making Jerry pop and rocket into the distance. Delighted after making Jerry float away, Tom turns back, but sees Butch impressing his girlfriend weightlifting. Tom confronts his rival, but Butch sends Tom flying into a pole with elastic string. Jerry then returns and exacts revenge on Tom by hanging the string onto the pole, stopping Tom from confronting Butch again. Tom fruitlessly tries to grab Butch as he crashes back into the pole, which splits and crushes Tom. Tom waddles as a crab, scaring a real crab out of its wits. Tom challenges Butch to a weightlifting contest as the two fight over the heart of the girl cat. Tom barely lifts a heavy barbell that Butch is unable to lift, but the weight is too much for him, and he falls sideways and gets flattened between the weights. Butch then steals Toms beach ball to dance with the girl cat, while Jerry dances with the banana peel. Tom digs a sand pit and clips a crab to Butchs shorts to steal his place, but Butch outmuscles and defeats Tom by launching his rival into the trash bin. Still determined to win his girlfriend back, Tom stuffs helium balloons into his bathing suit in a last-ditch effort to look stronger than Butch. The balloons make the cat float over the ground, so Tom cleverly ties an anchor around his waist to hold himself down. Tom storms back to Butch and punches him, but Butchs return makes the balloons flip Tom upside down. Butch then asks Tom for a return punch, but instead, Tom knocks Butch out with a swing of the anchor, vanquishing his rival. Tom is flexing his "muscles" to his girl, but is annoyed by Jerry eating noisily nearby on his picnic basket. Tom flips the baskets lid onto Jerrys head to silence Jerry, who in turn unties Tom from his anchor. Tom floats over the ground again while kissing his girlfriend and has to hold onto his beach umbrella in desperation. Jerry then inflates Toms bathing suit with a helium canister and vanquishes the cat by pricking him with a safety pin, bursting Toms balloons and causing Tom to spin in the air and whoosh off into the distance. Having defeated Tom and Butch, Jerry tries to steal the girl cats heart by lifting a barbell of tomatoes. However, the weight is too much for him and like Tom earlier in his successful but short-lived attempt to win his girlfriend back, Jerry falls sideways and ends up flattened between the "weights", leaving no winner and the girl cat single once again.
Muscle Beach Tom
1956