Alex Fletcher (Hugh Grant) is a washed-up former pop star who is attempting to revive his dwindling career by hitching his name to the rising star of Cora Corman (Haley Bennett), a young megastar who has asked him to write a song titled "Way Back Into Love." Alex is reluctant to compose again after two decades, but his caring but professional manager tells him that his career is doomed if he doesnt. During an unsuccessful attempt to compose the song in collaboration with a "very hip, very edgy" lyricist, Alex discovers that the woman who is temporarily watering his plants, Sophie Fisher (Drew Barrymore), has a gift for writing lyrics. Sophie, a former creative writing student reeling from a disastrous romance with her former English professor Sloan Cates (Campbell Scott) who "forgot" to mention he had a fiancée, initially refuses. Alex cajoles her into helping him by using a few quickly-chosen phrases she has given him as the basis for a song. Over the next few days, they grow closer while writing the words and music together, much to the delight of Sophies older sister Rhonda (Kristen Johnston), a huge fan of Alex. Barely meeting the deadline Cora has set for the songs delivery, Alex and Sophie are thrilled when she accepts it; however, at a celebratory dinner with Alexs manager Chris (Brad Garrett) Sophie is mortified to encounter Sloan. She confronts him but finds herself tongue-tied in his presence, and Alexs own attempts to defend her result in a scuffle. Nursing their wounds back at Alexs apartment, Alex and Sophie fall into an unplanned romantic encounter. Sophie is later horrified when she finds Cora plans to record a sexy interpretation of "Way Back into Love," complete with an Indian vibe which she feels clashes with the romantic spirit of the song. She is determined to convince Cora to abandon the arrangement, but Alex vetoes her efforts for fear he will lose Coras goodwill. In the ensuing argument, he admits Coras version is awful but contends accepting it as the cost of doing business. Upset by Alexs willingness to demean his talent and extremely hurt by his argument that Sloan Cates was right about her personality, Sophie leaves him. Sophie, intending to start a new life in Florida, reluctantly attends the opening of Coras new tour at Madison Square Garden, at which Alex and Cora will debut "Way Back Into Love". Upon hearing that Alex is singing a new song "written by Alex Fletcher", Sophie is upset to believe that Alex is stealing credit for her work; however, the song Alex sings is called "Dont Write Me Off", his plea for Sophie to give him another chance. Touched, Sophie finds Alex backstage, and he confesses he convinced Cora to drop the risqué version of "Way Back into Love" in an attempt to win Sophie back. He and Cora perform the tune as he and Sophie intended it to be sung, leading to the two of them kissing. The end of the movie (an homage to VH1s Pop-Up Video) reveals that the song becomes a hit for Cora and Alex, the film version of Sloans novel flops with critics and moviegoers (ruining his career), PoP! reunites for their induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame after which their lead singer Colin Thompson (who left the band with some of Alexs songs to start a solo career) winds up having his hip replaced after years of dancing, and Alex and Sophie go on to become successful partners, both in songwriting and romance.
Music and Lyrics
2007