The film begins with 5-year-old Danny (Jude Law) and his military father visiting a family friends, Graces (Brenda Blethyn), house at Thanksgiving. When Grace goes into labor, Dannys father asks him to unwrap the umbilical cord from the baby. After a successful birth, Danny decides to himself that the baby girl born, Anna (Gretchen Mol), is meant to be with him forever, and states that he will marry her. Twenty-five years later, Danny now 30 moves back to his hometown after his father dies. Homeless and jobless, Danny finds a cheap apartment owned by a bakery shop couple who offer him little jobs delivering cakes. During his first delivery, Danny gets lost and stops at Graces for directions. Nina (Jennifer Tilly), Annas blind sister, opens the door and Danny sees Anna for the first time. Anna and Ninas family order a cake from the bakery and Danny immediately leaves to deliver it, hoping to see Anna, but crashes his bike into a car right outside the home, going unconscious. He awakes in Graces house to meet Annas entire family—her brother Billy (Jeremy Piven) and Billys mentally distraught wife, Irene (Jane Adams), her father Richard (Bruce Jarchow), her sister Karen (Martha Plimpton), and boyfriend Eric (Jon Tenney). He is invited to stay for dinner where he is given news of Annas recent engagement to Eric. Danny later gets the job as a tiler/mosaic artist in a local museum. Danny soon confesses his love for Anna, asking her to run away and marry him. Anna rejects him kindly and rides away, with Danny chasing her. At a bookstore, Danny tells Eric he is in love with Anna. Grace remains ill with a bed nurse. Anna later becomes jealous of the love between Nina and her new boyfriend Jesus, and rushes to Dannys home. The two then sleep together. At Billys house, Irene screams at Billy and points a gun at him because she believes he is having an affair. She quickly shoots at Billy, hitting his foot, and laughs as he tumbles in pain. Nina and Jesus have an informal elopement during the night. After Nina returns home to tell her mother gleefully, Grace passes away in Richards arms. Anna leaves Dannys apartment to tell her mother about her relationship with Danny only to find that she has died. At Graces funeral, Anna says she already told Eric about their affair. Danny tells Anna he is leaving in a couple of days and says goodbye. That night, Eric announces he and Anna are going to Paris to get married. The next day, Nina tells Anna that she loves Danny, not Eric, and advises her to go after Danny. At the train station, Anna chases down Danny and begs him to take her with him. Danny says that it wont last. She holds up a regular coin and says if it lands heads, she may go with him. Without looking, he claims it is heads and the two kiss.
Music from Another Room (film)
1998