Childhood friends Lonnie, Dominic, and G have a rude awakening when they find out their girlfriends are pregnant. Lonnie and G have sons, Carver and Bruce-Leroy, and Dominic has a daughter, Jasmine. Each have their own unique set of problems; Lonnies girlfriend Rolonda is more interested in partying than being a mother; Dominic discovers that his girlfriend Nia is a lesbian and has fallen in love with her midwife; while G, an aspiring boxer, is unable to fully commit to his girlfriend XiXi. Throughout the movie, all three men, particularly G and Dominic, are determined to continue their normal way of living and be fathers at the same time. Lonnie is a garbageman among other part-time jobs, G works in the store Xixis family runs, and Dominic is managing a pair of white rappers. After they momentarily lose their kids during a party they threw, they realize how much their kids depend on them, and gradually become responsible fathers. Lonnie falls in love with a woman from a Mommy and Me class named Brandy who he treats badly on date, due to believing she wouldnt like the real him. Nia reveals to Dominic shes a lesbian and feels he is too involved in his career to ever be a father. Gs cousin No Good robs a store to help him get the supplies for his son and Xixi feels he was in on it and takes Bruce-Leroy away from him. After all three are given a talking to by Lonnies Uncle Virgil, they realize how much they love their kids and what they have to do. Lonnie apologizes to Brandy, but he stays true to himself, and she forgives him, then he storms to Rolondas house and takes Carver with him, while criticizing her for having a baby to get child support payments, and knocks out her cousin "Big Swoll". Dominic goes to Nia and tells her how much he loves Jasmine and how he needs to be a part of her life. Gs girlfriends father tells him a story of being in the Triads before he had his daughter and realized how much his family meant to him, leading to G proposing to Xixi. At the end of the movie it is revealed that Lonnie and Brandy are married with 2 children. Lonnie has also achieved his dream of becoming a successful inventor; Dominic started a childrens music album; and G and his father-in-law open a martial arts/boxing studio called The Mo Fo Dojo. No Good, after learning of organic foods, goes on to become a successful food show personality called The Organic Gangster. They lastly toast to great babies daddies. In the end, they realize that three little babies turned them into three grown men.
My Baby's Daddy
2004