On St. Valentines Day 1997, a cave-in traps six miners working in the Hanniger mine in the town of Harmony, a rural mining community. Six days later, rescuers recover a comatose Harry Warden alongside his five co-workers, whom he killed to conserve his own oxygen. Teenager Tom Hanniger is blamed for the incident due to his forgetting to vent the methane lines, triggering the cave-in. The following year, Warden, dressed in a gas mask and mining suit, goes on a murderous rampage, making his way to the Hanniger mine, where Tom, girlfriend Sarah, and friends Axel Palmer and his girlfriend Irene are attending a party. Warden murders multiple teenagers in the mine, but Tom, Sarah, Axel, and Irene survive the ordeal. Ten years later, in 2008, Tom inherits the mine after his fathers death and returns to Harmony after a decade-long disappearance. He finds Sarah working as a manager of her familys grocery store, married to Axel, now a police officer, and with one son. Sarah is emotional over Toms return, and Axel is perturbed by his presence. Axel goes to his fathers abandoned home in the woods to have a sexual rendezvous with Megan, a young clerk at Sarahs store; there, she tells him she is pregnant. Meanwhile, Tom checks into a motel, where Irene is having sex with Frank, a trucker. She discovers Frank has filmed their sexual encounter, and she chases him into the parking lot to his truck. As he enters the cab, he is killed with a pick-axe by a man donning a gas-mask and mining gear. Irene hides in a room under a bed, and witnesses the masked killer murder the hotel manager, Selene. The killer discovers her, and stabs her to death with the pick-axe. Axel arrives at the crime scene and finds Irenes body with her heart missing. Tom becomes a suspect because of his checking in to the motel that night. At the police station, Axel receives an anonymous heart-shaped box with Irenes heart in it. The next day, Tom goes to visit the mine, and has an encounter with the killer, but the miners disbelieve him. James Burke, the former sheriff, confesses to Tom that he, Toms father, and Ben Foley, a local politician, killed and buried Warden after his 1998 murder spree, and had the crime covered by the local police department. To prove it, he takes Tom to the site where Warden was buried, but upon their arrival, they find an empty shallow grave. That evening, Ben is murdered by Warden in his home, and later discovered in Wardens grave with his heart missing. While closing the grocery store, Sarah and Megan are attacked by the killer, and Megan is pulled out a window into an alley and murdered; Axel arrives shortly thereafter, and he and Sarah discover her body in an alley with its heart missing, and the phrase "Be Mine 4 Ever" scrawled in blood. While discussing Megans murder, Sarah tells Axel she is aware of his infidelity. The killer later infiltrates the Palmer house, killing their babysitter, Rosa, and hiding her body in a washing machine. Burke arrives at the home, and is violently murdered on the front porch After being released from the hospital, Sarah leaves with Tom; Axel, convinced Tom is the killer, calls to warn Sarah, telling him Tom has been institutionalized for the last seven years. Alarmed, Sarah attempts to have Tom drive her home, but he refuses. She grabs the steering column, crashing the car. Sarah flees into the woods, and calls Axel from her cell phone. She goes to hide in Axels fathers abandoned house. Inside, she discovers empty heart-shaped boxes, and a high school photo of her with Tom. The killer enters the house, and Sarah flees, running into a mine entrance. While hiding in the mine, she is confronted by Axel, and manages to wrest his gun from him. Tom arrives, and Sarah holds them both at gunpoint. Tom makes mention of Megans death, confirming to Sarah that he is the killer, as he would not have known she was dead otherwise. In the midst of a hallucination, Tom—who has developed an alternate personality as Harry Warden—sees Warden appear behind Sarah, and begs her to shoot him. Axel grabs the pick-axe and attacks Tom, but is injured in the scuffle. Sarah and Axel flee into a tunnel, and Tom follows them, smashing the overhead lights as he approaches. Sarah manages to shoot Tom in the side, hitting a fuel tank that results in an explosion, causing the tunnel ceiling to collapse on him. Sarah and Axel escape the mine at dawn. A rescuer finds Tom in the debris, and Tom, still alive, kills him. Disguised as a rescue worker, Tom emerges from the mine and passes by unnoticed. In a post-credits scene, someone who appears to be Warden is seen wandering the mine tunnels.
My Bloody Valentine 3D
2009