Driving through Alabama in their 1964 Buick Skylark convertible, Billy Gambini and Stan Rothenstein, college students from New York who just got scholarships to UCLA, shop at a convenience store and accidentally shoplift a can of tuna. After they leave, the store clerk is robbed and killed, and Billy and Stan are arrested for the murder. Due to circumstantial evidence and a confession to the shoplifting that is misconstrued as one to the shooting, Billy is charged with murder, and Stan as an accessory. Billys mother reminds him there is an attorney in the family: his cousin Vinny. Vincent LaGuardia Gambini travels there, accompanied by his fiancée, Mona Lisa Vito. Although he is willing to take the case, Vinny is a personal injury lawyer from Brooklyn, newly admitted to the bar, and with no trial experience. Vinny manages to fool the trial judge, Chamberlain Haller, about being experienced enough for the case. His ignorance of basic courtroom procedures, dress code, and his abrasive attitude cause the judge to repeatedly hold him in contempt. Much to his clients consternation, Vinny does not cross-examine any of the witnesses in the preliminary hearing. Except for lack of a murder weapon, it appears that the district attorney, Jim Trotter III, has a strong case that will lead to convictions. After Vinnys poor showing at the hearing, Stan fires him and uses the public defender, John Gibbons, and nearly convinces Billy to do the same. Despite his missteps, Vinny shows that he is able to make up for his inexperience with an aggressive and perceptive questioning style. Vinny quickly discredits the testimony of the first three witnesses, and Billy and Stans faith is restored. On the trials third day, Trotter produces a surprise witness, FBI analyst George Wilbur, who testifies that the pattern and chemical analysis of the tire marks left at the crime scene are identical to the tires on Billys Buick. With only the lunch recess to prepare his cross-examination and unable to come up with a strong line of questioning, Vinny lashes out at Lisa. However, Vinny realizes that one of Lisas photos holds the key to the case: the flat and even tire marks going over the curb reveal that Billys car could not have been used for the getaway. After requesting a records search from the local sheriff, Vinny drags Lisa into court to testify as an expert witness. During Vinnys questioning, Lisa testifies that only a car with an independent rear suspension and positraction could have made the tire marks, which rules out Billys 1964 Buick Skylark. However, one model of car with these features is the similar-looking 1963 Pontiac Tempest. Vinny re-calls George Wilbur, who confirms this. Vinny then re-calls the local sheriff, who testifies that two men who fit Billy and Stans descriptions were just arrested in Georgia for driving a stolen green Pontiac Tempest, and were in possession of a gun of the same caliber used to kill the clerk. Trotter moves to dismiss all charges. The judge congratulates Vinny and, as they drive away, he and Lisa bicker about their wedding plans.
My Cousin Vinny
1992