When her beloved husband dies after a long illness, Jessica Drummond (Barbara Stanwyck) is comforted by the executor of her husbands estate, lawyer Frank Everett (Warner Anderson), a longtime family friend who later shows an interest in dating "Jess". Jess has two boys: 14-year-old Kim (Scotty Beckett) and 12-year-old Keith (Bobby Cooper). She tries to reconnect with her old friends, but finds they remind her too much of her husband. She is accosted by one of them, George Van Orman (Jerome Cowan), when he brings her home one night. Fortunately, she has a real friend in Ginna Abbott (Eve Arden), whom she runs to and stays with, the night George bothers her. Ginna and her husband Cary (John Ridgely) invite Jess to vacation with them at Lake Tahoe. When Jess finds herself lost with a broken ski, she meets Major Scott Landis (George Brent). He helps her back to the Abbotts lodge. After an evening of socializing, he spends the night downstairs on the sofa. Jess and Scott get to know each other better, but she spurns his advances and tells him to leave. Back in Lake Forest, just outside Chicago, Jess finds herself alone again except for her longtime housekeeper and cook, Anna (Esther Dale). Frank comes to call and is invited to stay for dinner. However, Ginna phones and tells Jess than she and Cary have spotted Landis at a club. Jess asks Frank if they can go out instead of eating at home, and then gets all dressed up. At the club, Jess deliberately bumps into Scott and finds out that he is stationed in Chicago, but refrains from telling her that he is waiting for orders to go overseas. Another day, Scott asks Jess to meet him at his apartment before going out to dinner. A friend of Jesss mother, Stella Thompson (Cecil Cunningham) sees Jess enter his apartment. This becomes a subject of gossip among Jesss friends, including Georges wife Riette Van Orman (Leona Maricle) and eventually their children. Jesss mother (Lucile Watson) confronts Scott on Christmas Eve. All the while, however, Jesss relationship with Scott is platonic, though Jess has begun to return his affections, initially out of spite against the rumor mill. She later confronts it head-on at a New Years Eve party. Behind closed doors and at Jesss insistence on knowing the source of the rumors, Mrs. Van Orman expresses her disapproval of Jesss behavior. Jess tells her that she is doing nothing wrong and she will not be deterred by other peoples opinions. She leaves the party with Scott, going to Chicago to ring in the new year. Back at Jesss house, the boys hear them come home at 3 am. Jess tells Scott she loves him, he abruptly tells her that it will not work out, as he has orders to report in New York tomorrow for his next assignment, which could be anywhere overseas. Jess tells him that she will go with him to New York so they may spend as much time together as they can. They agree to meet at the train platform at 7. Afterward, Kim and Keith ask her if she is really leaving for New York. She affirms that she is. In the early morning, when she goes to her sons room to say goodbye, a horrified Jess discovers their beds are empty. She gets a call from her mother, who informs her they are at her house. She goes there and pleads with her sons to understand her  loneliness and grief and that she greatly loved their father and he will always hold a place in her heart, but she has room to love another. Keith embraces her and tells her that even though he does not understand, he just wants her to be happy.  At 7 oclock, Jess runs down the train platform searching for Scott. She hurriedly tells him she cannot go with him as her sons are too young to understand the situation. Scott tells her that he knows he is meant to be with her and asks her to wait for his return, before leaving on the train.
My Reputation
1946