The story takes place in the fictional town of Upper Darby, Rhode Island in 2004. Anna Fitzgeralds older sister, Kate, suffers from acute promyelocytic leukemia, a blood and bone marrow cancer. Anna was born as a savior sister specifically so she could save Kates life. At first it is successful, but the cancer continues to relapse throughout Kates life. Anna is usually willing to donate whatever Kate needs, but when she turns 13, she is told that she will have to donate one of her kidneys due to Kates kidney failure. The surgery required for both Kate and Anna would be major; it is not guaranteed to work, as the stress of the operation may kill Kate anyway, and the loss of a kidney could have a serious impact on Annas life. Anna petitions for medical emancipation with the help of lawyer Campbell Alexander, so she will be able to make her own decisions regarding her medical treatment and the donation of her kidney. This is done on the advice of Julia Romano, the court-appointed guardian ad litem whose job it is to decide what would be best for Anna. Julia was once romantically involved with Campbell when they went to high school together, but Campbell broke her heart when he left her. Unbeknownst to Julia, Campbell left her because he discovered he had epilepsy and thought she deserved better. Meanwhile, Annas older brother, Jesse, who has spent most of his life being ignored in favor of ill Kate or donor Anna, spends most of his time setting fire to abandoned buildings with homemade explosives and using illegal drugs. He is a self-confessed juvenile delinquent, which leads to their father Brian eventually confronting Jesse for his behavior. During the trial, it is revealed that Kate originally asked Anna to sue for emancipation because Kate did not want Anna to have to donate her kidney now that Kate has been ready to die, but their mom Sara cannot seem to understand that (she later comes to terms when Anna tells her), and because Kate believes she will die anyway. The judge rules in Annas favor, and grants Campbell a medical power of attorney. However, as Campbell drives her home after the trial, their car is hit by a pick-up. The on-call firefighter (who also happens to be Brian, Annas father) who arrives at the scene, retrieves an unconscious and severely injured Anna from the wreckage of the crushed car. She goes into cardiac arrest and is revived. Both she and Campbell are rushed to the hospital. At the hospital, the doctor informs Sara and Brian that Anna is brain-dead and asks them if they have considered organ donation. An injured Campbell steps in and declares that he has the power of attorney and that "there is a girl upstairs who needs that kidney." Kate is prepared for surgery, and Annas kidney is successfully transplanted. Annas life-machines are then shut off by her family. Kate survives the surgery and remains in remission. Jesse has reformed and graduates from the police academy, despite his criminal record.
My Sister's Keeper (novel)
2009