The film is about the coming of age of two sisters and their friend through the romantic lives of the three main characters: Kat Araújo (Annabeth Gish), Daisy Araújo (Julia Roberts), and Jojo Barbosa (Lili Taylor), who are waitresses at Mystic Pizza in Mystic, Connecticut. In the film, Mystic is represented as a fishing town with a large Portuguese-American population. The film also touches on an Old World work ethic. Kat and Daisy are sisters and rivals: Kat studies astronomy, works at the planetarium in the famous Whaling Museum of The Mystic Seaport, as well as the restaurant, and has been accepted to attend Yale University on a partial scholarship. Daisy just wants to find love through lust while trying to get out of Mystic. Kat is the apple of her Portuguese mothers eye, while Daisy is not because her mother feels she is more wild and is not as goal-oriented as her younger sister. Daisy meets a handsome young man named Charles (Adam Storke) at a bar, and the two are immediately attracted to each other, and begin a relationship, much to her mothers dismay, believing that the relationship will prevent her making something of herself like Kat. However, at a family dinner, his relatives unintentionally make insensitive comments about her ethnicity, and Charles overreacts. Daisy breaks up with him, believing that his familys remarks were harmless and that he was simply using her to show up his parents. There is also chemistry between Kat and her Anglo-American employer, Tim (William R. Moses), a father who has hired her to look after his young daughter, Phoebe, while his wife is away. A relationship develops between them, and they eventually make love, but it results in heartache for Kat when the wife returns and her illusion of an actual relationship with Tim is shattered. Daisy and Kat bond when Kat is devastated after Tims and her evening together and Daisy comforts her baby sister. Jojo is trying to have sex with her boyfriend Bill (Vincent DOnofrio), whom she attempted to marry at the beginning of the movie, but fainted after deciding she couldnt go through with it. However, Bill refuses to have sex with her until they are married, which is something she still isnt ready for. Seeing how she tries to look for every chance to have sex with him, Bill believes that Jojo doesnt love him like he does her, and is only after him for sex, and breaks up with her. After all those events, at work, a famous TV food critic, nicknamed "The Fireside Gourmet" (Louis Turenne), comes to the pizzeria to sample a pizza. Not showing any emotion towards the pizza that he eats, he leaves after eating only a few bites, leaving the girls in suspense. However, a few days later, the critic gives the pizzeria his highest rating, calling it "superb." In the end, Kat receives her last paycheck from Tim (which she tears up and throws away), and never sees him again. Jojo finally agrees to marry Bill, and at their wedding, Daisy and Charles reconcile. The film ends with the three girls together overlooking the water from the balcony of the restaurant, reminiscing about their time together.
Mystic Pizza
1988