Frank Drebin has retired from Police Squad and lives a seemingly happy life with his wife, Jane Spencer-Drebin. Under the surface, however, Frank is unfulfilled acting as a househusband, and he and Jane attend marriage counseling. Six months after Franks retirement he is visited by Ed Hocken and Nordberg, who ask for Franks help with an investigation. Police Squad has caught wind that infamous bomber Rocco Dillon, who is currently incarcerated, has been hired by terrorists to conduct a major bombing against the United States. Frank remembers Roccos girlfriend Tanya Peters from an investigation years ago and agrees to help Ed and Nordberg by visiting the clinic Peters works at. Frank, in disguise, visits the clinic and writes Peters address on a handkerchief, but loses it before he can give it to Ed and accidentally ends up a repeating sperm donor. Jane comes home to an exhausted Frank and accuses him of doing police work again. Frank lies and swears hes having an affair, but Jane doesnt believe him and moves out of their house. With nothing else to lose, Frank volunteers to go undercover in prison to befriend Dillon and learn the details of the bombing. Frank is put in Roccos cell in prison and adopts the name Nick "The Slasher" McGuirk. He wins Roccos trust after protecting their escape plan from a guard and causing a riot. Rocco and Frank escape through a tunnel out of their cell and are picked up on the outside by Roccos mother Muriel. At Roccos hideout, Frank attempts to get information on the bombing out of Rocco and his mother, but they are distrustful of him and refuse to tell him the details. In the meantime, Jane and her friend Louise are on a road trip together when Jane discovers the handkerchief with Tonya Peters address on it. Believing Frank was being truthful about the affair, Jane decides to drive cross-country to the address to find Frank. When she arrives, Frank answers the door and must quickly cover for her; he convinces the Dillons that Jane is a random stranger but that they should keep her alive as a hostage. Rocco finally reveals his plan to Frank: the bomb is to be set off at this years Academy Award ceremony, with the bomb hidden in the envelope with the nomination of the Best Picture category and triggered when the card is pulled out. At the awards ceremony, Frank traps Muriel in the car and sneaks into the show with Jane to search for the bomb. Frank and Jane separate and frantically begin searching for the bomb, with Frank inflicting his usual chaos on stage during the show. However, they are unable to find the bomb before the nomination for Best Picture has begun. Frank bursts onto the stage and awkwardly tries to prevent the detonation of the bomb, but ends up in a stalemate with Rocco. Frank manages to drop an electronic sign which takes out Muriel. A desperate Rocco decides to detonate the bomb to follow his mother, but Frank manages to catapult Rocco and the bomb offstage into the catwalks above. Frank snares Rocco with a rubber cable and slings him through the roof of the arena with the bomb pulled out. Rocco crashes into Papshmirs private helicopter overhead, and the bomb explodes, killing both. Frank and Jane reaffirm their love under the applause of the awarding audience and viewers worldwide. Nine months later, Frank and Nordberg rush into the obstetric ward to witness the birth of Franks child, but run into the wrong delivery room. Seeing that the baby is African-American, Frank assumes Nordberg is responsible and angrily chases him. Just after they leave, Ed comes out of another hospital room with Jane, who is holding their real baby.
Naked Gun 33⅓: The Final Insult
1994