Napoleon Dynamite is a socially awkward 16-year-old boy from Preston, Idaho, who lives with his grandmother, Carlinda Dynamite, and his older brother, Kipling Ronald "Kip" Dynamite. Kip, 32, is unemployed and boasts of spending hours on Internet chat rooms with his girlfriends and aspiring to be a cage fighter. Napoleon daydreams his way through school, doodling ligers and fantasy creatures and reluctantly deals with the various bullies who torment him, particularly the obnoxious sports jock, Don. Napoleon likes to make up stories about himself and his outlandish "skills" while having a sullen and aloof personality. Napoleons grandmother breaks her coccyx in a quad-bike accident and asks their Uncle Rico to look after the boys while she recovers. Rico, a middle-aged and flirtatious steak-loving former athlete who lives in a campervan, treats Napoleon like a child. He uses the visiting opportunity to team up with Kip in a get-rich-quick scheme to sell numerous items door-to-door. Kip wants money to visit his Internet girlfriend LaFawnduh while Rico believes riches will help him get over his failed dreams of NFL stardom and his recent breakup with his girlfriend. Napoleon becomes friends with two students at his school: Deb, a shy girl who runs various small businesses to raise money for college; and Pedro, a bold yet calm transfer student from Juarez, Mexico. A friendship soon develops between the three outcasts. During this time, preparations begin for the high school dance. Pedro first asks Summer Wheatley, a popular and snobby girl, to be his dance partner, but is rebuffed. He then asks Deb, who accepts happily. Pedro encourages an upset Napoleon to find a date for himself, and he picks an attractive classmate called Trisha from the school yearbook. As a gift, he draws a bad picture of her and delivers it to Trishas mother, who is incidentally a customer of Rico. Rico tells embarrassing stories about Napoleon to evoke sympathy from her. She buys the goods and also forces Trisha to reluctantly accept Napoleons request. Inspired by an election poster at the dance, Pedro decides to run for class president, putting him against Summer. The two factions put up flyers and give out accessories to the students to attract voters. In an attempt to increase their respect by demonstrating "skills", Napoleon and Pedro enter a Future Farmers of America competition, grading milk and cow udders. They do well and win medals, but this does little for their popularity. Incidentally, Napoleon visits an op-shop and buys a dance instructional VHS called "D-Qwons Dance Grooves", becoming a skillful dancer. Kip, meanwhile, is head-over-heels in love since LaFawnduh has come to visit him from Detroit. She gives Kip an urban makeover, outfitting him in hip-hop regalia. Seeing that he dances, LaFawnduh also gives Napoleon a mixtape. Ricos ongoing scheme causes friction with Napoleon as he continues to spread embarrassing rumors about him to his prospective customers. Rico later tries to sell Deb a breast-enhancement product, claiming it was Napoleons suggestion, which causes her to break off their friendship. His scheme ends when he visits the wife of the towns martial arts instructor, Rex, to try and sell her the breast enhancements; Rex walks in and beats him up after witnessing Ricos demonstration. On the day of the class president elections, Summer gives a speech before the student body, and then presents a dance skit with a school club. Pedro and Napoleon then discover that a skit was also required from them, and a despondent Pedro gives an unimpressive speech. In an attempt to save Pedros campaign, Napoleon gives the sound engineer LaFawnduhs tape, and spontaneously performs an elaborate dance routine to "Canned Heat" by Jamiroquai. Summer and her boyfriend Don are unimpressed, but the routine receives a standing ovation from all the other students, including Deb. The film concludes with Pedro becoming the class president, LaFawnduh leaving with Kip on a bus for Michigan, Rico reuniting with his estranged girlfriend, Grandma returning from the hospital, and Napoleon and Deb making up and playing tetherball. In a post-credits scene, Kip and LaFawnduh are married in an outdoor ceremony in Preston. Napoleon, absent for the vows, arrives riding a horse, claiming that it is a "wild honeymoon stallion" that he has tamed himself. Kip flicks LaFawnduhs garter as a "keepsake" towards Napoleon, Pedro and Rico (who catches it) before he and LaFawnduh ride off across the fields.
Napoleon Dynamite
2004