Two LAPD policemen, Hank Rafferty and Charlie Reed, investigate a warehouse heist and discover a gang of thieves, one of which kills Charlie before they escape. Meanwhile, Earl Montgomerys lifelong dream to become a police officer is thwarted when he flunks police academy for accidentally destroying a Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor. Hank receives a warning from Detective Frank McDuff after interfering with the investigation of Charlies death. Hank crosses paths with Earl when he notices Earl trying to get into his car after locking his keys inside. When Hank questions Earl, Earl race-baits Hank to the brink of getting himself arrested. A bumblebee comes along, to which Earl is allergic, causing him to panic. From afar, it appears as if Hank is brutalizing Earl when he is actually attempting to shoo the bee away by swatting it with his expandable baton; a Latino man catches the incident on videotape. As a result of the seeming evidence and a spiteful Earl lying about the accused brutalizing, Hank is fired from the police force and charged with aggravated assault against Earl. After six months in prison, Hank takes a job as a security guard and continues investigating Charlies death. Noticing an alarm being tripped at a soda warehouse, Hank goes to investigate. Earl, who is working for the same security company, is on duty at the warehouse, but is slacking off. Hank interrupts the heist, and a gunfight erupts with the thugs, during which Hank and Earl cross paths again. Though the rest of the thugs get away, Hank recognizes the tattoo of the man who shot Charlie, whose name he learns is Nash. One of the thieves drops a cell phone, which leads them to a semi-trailer truck rented by the killers and located on a bridge. Inside the truck, Hank and Earl find the thieves van. After a brief shootout with the thieves, Hank and Earl drive the van out of the truck and escape. Inside the van are what look like ordinary beer kegs; Hank has them examined by a friend who works at a foundry, who informs them that the kegs are actually made of an atomic aerospace alloy, which is worth millions. Hank takes the van and the kegs to the house of his ex-girlfriend Denise. They broke up after Hank was arrested, and Hank orders Earl to tell Denise the truth about the "assault." Earl promises, but when he sees that Denise is an attractive woman (and, like himself but not Hank, black), he breaks his promise and starts hitting on her, by playing the victim again, which causes another fight between them, leading to her throwing both of them out of the house. After a heated argument, Hank brutally punches Earl in the face, before storming off. Later, Earl and Hank are cornered by police, learning that they are suspects in the bridge shootout. After they escape, Hank realizes that the thieves must have an inside man in the police department to help them frame the duo for the shootout. That night, after tracing the vans owner to an address, Hank and Earl stake out the place, but Earl rushes inside on his own and is confronted by Nash. Hank gets Earl to safety, but Earl is shot in the leg and forced to lend Hank his favorite gun, "Earl Junior" after Hank uses up the ammunition in his own gun. When Hank takes Earl to Denise to get his wound treated (which turns out to be a graze), a bee flies into the house and Earl runs for cover, making Denise realize that Hanks story about the "assault" on Earl was actually true. She punches Earl for lying and imprisoning Hank, and reconciles with Hank (which was cut from the final film, possibly for time constraints.) Based on something overheard from Nash, they follow him to a meeting at a yacht club and witness him talking to McDuff, who is revealed to be Nashs inside man. Hank and Earl share everything they know with Hanks former boss, Lieutenant Washington (at various points of the conversation, Earl asks Washington for one of his potato chips, but Washington continuously refuses), and then pretend to approach McDuff, offering to sell him back the "beer kegs" for $1 million. However, Nash overhears their plans and takes Washington hostage first. During the confrontation the next day, Earl and Hank meet with McDuff, Nash and their men near the coast, rescuing Washington and accidentally starting a shootout, but the trio manage to kill or apprehend most of Nashs gang, including McDuff. Hank survives a gunshot wound while Earl fights Nash. Eventually, Hank kills Nash by dropping a lifting hook onto an unstable slab of rock that Nash is standing on, catapulting him into the ocean. Six more months later, in honor of their heroic actions, Hank is reinstated in the LAPD and Earl is admitted to the force, and they are made partners a short time later. The two encounter a situation similar to where they met, in which a man is apparently locked out of his car. Earl helps the man, but learns afterwards that the man is actually stealing the car from a lady who is shopping. While attempting to stop the man by shooting out the cars tires with Earl Junior, Earl accidentally destroys the car, much to the ladys anger and dismay.
National Security (film)
2003