National Velvet is the story of a 14-year-old, horse-crazy girl, Velvet Brown (Elizabeth Taylor), who lives in the small town of Sewels in Sussex, England. She wins a spirited gelding in a raffle and decides to train him for the Grand National steeplechase. Velvet is aided by a penniless young drifter named Mi Taylor (Mickey Rooney), who discovered Mrs. Browns name and address among his late fathers effects, though he is unaware of why it was there. Hoping to profit from the association, Mi accepts an invitation to dinner and a nights lodging at the Browns home, but Mrs. Brown is unwilling to allow Mi to trade on his fathers good name and remains vague about their connection. Nevertheless, she convinces her husband (Donald Crisp) to hire Mi over his better judgment, and Mi is brought into the home as a hired hand. It is revealed that Mis career as a jockey ended in a collision which resulted in another jockeys death. Mi has not held a job since, and now hates horses. Velvet names the horse she won, "The Pie", because his previous owner, Mr. Ede, called the troublesome gelding a pirate. Seeing Pies natural talent, Velvet pleads with Mi to train him for the Grand National. Mi believes it a fools errand, not because the horse lacks ability, but because they have no way to finance the effort. He makes his case to Mrs. Brown, but she consents to Velvets desire to train the horse. To cover the entrance fee and other costs, Mrs. Brown gives Velvet her prize money for swimming the English Channel. Velvet and Mi train the horse and enter him into the race. Mi and Velvet travel to the Grand National. Mi hires a professional jockey, but the night before the race, Velvet senses he lacks faith in the Pie and will lose. Velvet convinces Mi to dismiss the jockey, leaving them without a rider. That night, Mi overcomes his fear of riding and intends to race Pie himself. Instead, he discovers that Velvet has slipped on the jockey silks and intends to ride herself. Knowing the dangers, Mi unsuccessfully attempts to dissuade Velvet, who is determined to ride. As the race unfolds, Velvet and Pie clear all hurdles and win the race. Elated but exhausted, Velvet falls off her mount at the finish. After the track doctor discovers that Velvet is a girl, Velvet and Pie are disqualified. Velvet, who expected to be disqualified, only wanted to prove that Pie is a champion. Velvet becomes a media sensation and is offered large amounts of money to travel to Hollywood and be filmed with Pie. To her fathers disappointment, Velvet tearfully refuses the offers, claiming that Pie would dislike being stared at. Velvet says that she raced Pie at the Grand National because he deserved a chance for greatness. Velvet chooses a normal life for her and her horse. At the close of the film, Mi, ready to resume his old life, takes his leave without bidding Velvet goodbye. Before he gets too far, Mrs. Brown gives Velvet permission to reveal her relationship with his father. Velvet gallops off on Pie and find Mi on the road. She tells him that his father was Mrs. Browns coach as the first woman to swim the English Channel. The film differs from the book in a number of respects. For example, Velvets horse in the book is a piebald, and thus is given the name "The Piebald" or "The Pie" for short. In the movie, Pie is a chestnut, and another explanation for his name was given. Velvet, in the book, is a sickly child who is given to great imagination and spirit; her father is stern and given to anger, but the mother is stronger still and stands up to him . Since her days as a swimmer she has become a large woman, and weighs 16 stone—224 pounds (102 kg) at the time of the story, and warns Velvet never to allow herself to be burdened by weight. In the book Mr. and Mrs. Brown also have a 15-year-old daughter named Meredith, in addition to Edwina, Malvolia, Velvet, and Donald. The Meredith character does not appear in the movie.
National Velvet (film)
1944