Tobey Marshall is a former race car driver who owns his late fathers garage, Marshall Performance Motors, in Mount Kisco, New York where he and his friends tune performance cars. Struggling to make ends meet, he and his crew participate in street races after hours. After a race, Tobeys former rival Dino Brewster conscripts them into completing the build of a rare Ford Shelby Mustang worked on by the late Carroll Shelby, in exchange for 25% of the cars estimated selling price of $3 million. The completed Mustang is displayed for auction at a party in New York City. Tobey and Dino meet Julia, an English car broker whose client, Bill Ingram, wants to purchase the car if they can prove it will drive over 230 mph as Tobey claims. Despite Dinos objections, Tobey takes the Mustang to a local race track and successfully drives it at 234 mph, convincing Ingram to purchase it for $2.7 million. Dino, enraged that Tobey disobeyed his order, challenges Tobey and his friend Pete to a race after Pete flatly tells Dino that everyone knows Tobey is a better driver than him. Dino offers to relinquish his entire share of the Mustang sale if Tobey wins, otherwise Tobey will have to forfeit his share. The three race on the interstate in three illegally imported Koenigsegg Agera Rs. On the home stretch, Dino, realizing he will lose, intentionally bumps Petes car, sending it down a ravine and killing Pete when it bursts into flames. Dino disappears from the scene, and Tobey serves two years in jail for involuntary manslaughter, unable to prove that Dino was there. Upon his release on parole, Tobey sets out to avenge Petes death. He borrows Ingrams Mustang to enter the De Leon, a winner-takes-all supercar race organized by the mysterious Monarch. As a condition, Ingram requires Julia to accompany Tobey while Tobey is driving the Mustang. The pair have to reach San Francisco before the race starts in 45 hours. In Detroit, they cause an interstate chase with the Michigan State Police and upload the footage, leading Monarch to offer the invitation for the De Leon. Dino offers his rare Lamborghini Sesto Elemento to anyone who can stop Tobey from entering the race, causing a group of truckers to go after the Mustang as well. The truckers ambush Tobey and Julia in Utah, forcing them off the road. Maverick, a member of Tobeys crew, appears in a US Army helicopter stolen from the National Guard, and tows the Mustang mid-air to Tobeys crew at the Bonneville Salt Flats, getting himself arrested in the process. Tobey and Julia reach San Franciscos Mark Hopkins Hotel in time to register for the race, but on Nob Hill, a tow truck smashes the Mustang, injuring Julia and leaving Tobey without a car for the race. Desperate, Tobey meets Dinos fiancè Anita, his ex-girlfriend and Petes sister. Having discovered Dinos involvement in Petes death, Anita gives Tobey the location of Dinos Koenigsegg, which Toby and crew member Joe extract. Tobey meets Julia at a San Francisco hospital, and confesses his feelings for her with a kiss, letting her know that he has a "fast" car, and that this is for Pete. The next morning, Tobey surprises Dino by showing up in the Koenigsegg and giving him Anitas engagement ring, informing him that she is through with him. The race is gruelling, with racers and cops alike getting wrecked one by one, eventually leaving Dino and Tobey racing side-by-side along the Pacific Coast Highway. Dino attempts to ram Tobey off the road, but Tobey slams his brakes, causing Dinos car to crash. Near the finish line, Tobey turns around to pull Dino from the burning wreckage before winning the race (mirroring a vision Pete claimed he had before dying). Both are consequently arrested by the California Highway Patrol; the police prove the Koenigsegg belonged to Dino and use that evidence to incarcerate him for killing Pete. After serving 178 days in jail for illegal street racing, Tobey is released and Julia meets him at the prison gates in a 2015 Ford Mustang. The couple has five hours to reach a prison in Utah, where Maverick is getting released early for good behavior.
Need for Speed (film)
2014