Two years after the events of the first film, Mac (Seth Rogen) and Kelly (Rose Byrne) are trying to sell their home with the arrival of another baby. A couple, Eric (Sam Richardson) and Jessica Baiers (Abbi Jacobson) are looking to buy; the realtor (Liz Cackowski) tells Mac and Kelly that their house is in escrow for 30 days, so the buyers will check in every now and then to make sure everything is okay. Meanwhile, Macs friend, Jimmy (Ike Barinholtz), and his once-again wife Paula (Carla Gallo) are also expecting a baby. At the Phi Lambda sorority, Shelby (Chloë Grace Moretz), a freshman, learns that sororities are not allowed to host parties, and can only attend frat parties. Shelby goes to a frat party and meets two other freshmen, Beth (Kiersey Clemons) and Nora (Beanie Feldstein). They are disgusted by the sexist and perverse nature of the party and leave. Bonding over their dissatisfaction, the trio decides to set up a new sorority, Kappa Nu, to host their own parties. Meanwhile, Teddy Sanders (Zac Efron) is at a dinner with his old frat brothers Pete (Dave Franco), Scoonie (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), and Garf (Jerrod Carmichael). Since graduating, they had been successful in their own jobs: Pete is working as an architect and has come out of the closet, Scoonie has launched his own app, and Garf is now a cop. Due to the events from the first film, Teddy now has a criminal record and cannot get a worthwhile job to support himself (having been fired from his job as a shirt model). Since that time, he had continued blaming the Radners for both the record and the loss of career opportunities. Petes boyfriend Darren (John Early) then proposes to him, and Pete accepts, leading Pete to ask Teddy to move out, which later escalates into an argument between the two. The following day, the girls try to rent the adjacent house to the Radners, but do not have enough money to pay for it. Teddy, finding an opportunity where he can be valued, offers to help them and suggests a successful way to afford the rent. That night, they throw their first party. Horrified to learn they are a sorority, Mac and Kelly ask Shelby to keep the noise down. Mac and Kelly report them to Dean Gladstone (Lisa Kudrow), but she is unable to intervene since they are an independent sorority and she fears that shutting it down may lead to a public relations nightmare regarding sexism. The couple contact Shelbys father (Kelsey Grammer), but he fails to control the situation. Feeling outraged, the girls constantly haze the Radners. Mac, Kelly, Jimmy, and Paula retaliate by causing a bed bug infestation in the house, resulting in a fumigation just in time for the Baiers visit. The girls plan to raise money by selling weed at the schools tailgate and eliminating all the other competition by getting all the other weed dealers on campus arrested. Teddy strongly objects and the girls vote to kick him out of the house. Spurned, Teddy decides to join forces with the Radners to take down the sorority. They all go to the tailgate event to steal the weed. Teddy distracts the girls while Mac steals their weed supply. Shelby catches Mac, but he manages to escape. As gratitude for Teddys help, Mac and Kelly allow him to stay at their place until he decides what he wants to do with his life, where he grows closer to them. In retaliation for the tailgate, the girls switch Macs and Kellys phone numbers with their own, leading Kelly to become paranoid, and Mac to end up in Sydney, Australia. When he returns, Mac and Kelly find that they have been robbed and the sorority is selling their stuff and has spray-painted "Kappa Nu Steals From You" in the house. This causes the Baiers to threaten to pull out from the deal, while Mac and Kelly also reflect if they have been good parents. When the realtor of the sorority house reveals the girls are late on their payments, the Baiers give Mac and Kelly a day to get them out of the house. The girls find an eviction notice on their door. With barely any money to support themselves, Shelby says the only way they can win is to abandon their morals and resort to having a basic frat party with more sex appeal. They advertise the party to everyone on campus, leading to more people showing up at the house. Jimmy and Paula sneak into the party while Teddy tries to shut off the power. Teddy gets into the electrical box, but the girls have a backup power source. While Jimmy ends up getting roofied, Shelby enters the Radners house to cut off their phones. Mac and Teddy chase her to the garage, but get locked inside. They break out by using airbags from an old car. Disgusted by how much they have degraded themselves, Beth and Nora decide to quit the sorority and blame Shelby for the disaster, leading the other girls to leave as well. Mac and Kelly feel sorry for the girls after hearing that Shelby only formed the sorority so she could make friends since back in high school she had none and was constantly bullied and rejected. They also realize that they too are setting a terrible example for their daughter with their behavior in ruining Kappa Nu by trying to evict the girls so they could allow the Baiers to move in to their old home. Relating to her own experience in being rejected through high school, Kelly helps the girls mend their friendship and to go back to what they believe in. The girls then kick the frat boys out and have a more empowering girl party. The success of being the first sorority to throw a party brings girls from Phi Lambda and other sororities who want to pledge for Kappa Nu. By the end of the night, the girls make enough money not only to keep their house, but to give the surplus to Mac and Kelly so they can rent out their house due to overflowing pledges. Mac and Kelly happily agree, as long as they get five money-buckets per month. Paula goes into labor, meanwhile Teddy apologizes to Pete and Darren for his behavior and gets reassurance that he will never lose his best friend. Mac and Kellys anxiety about their parenthood is also alleviated as they realize they have been good parents all along. Three months later, Teddy is helping Pete get ready to walk down the aisle. Teddy has become a wedding planner for gay couples and enabling him a worthwhile career. Mac and Kelly have now moved into their new home. They bring home their new baby, Mildred, to join Jimmy and Paula with their new son, Jimmy Jr.
Neighbors 2: Sorority Rising
2016