In the West of the 1890s, a trio of outlaws, Bill Bowdre, Jesse Coe, and Tom Fitch, robs, tortures and brutally kills the white father and Indian mother of young Max Sand. The outlaws have stolen the fathers grey horse with a double SS brand. Max sets out to avenge their deaths and uses this clue to trail the men. During his travels in the desert, Max uncovers an old and rusty gun. When he comes upon Jonas Cord, Sr, a traveling gunsmith, he tries to rob him. Cord, recognizing that Maxs revolver is not loaded and is useless, convinces Max that his plan has failed. Max tells Cord of his vengeful journey. Cord takes pity on him, takes him in, feeds him and teaches him how to shoot. Max hunts the killers, who have separated. He tracks down Jesse Coe to Abilene, Texas. With the help of dancehall girl Neesa, a woman from the same tribe as his mother, he confronts him in a salon. Coe escapes and a knife fight ensues in a nearby corral. Coe is killed but Max is severely wounded. Neesa takes him to her tribes camp, where she nurses him back to health. They become lovers. Once he recovers, Max leaves Neesa to continue his pursuit. He reads that Bowdre is in a prison camp in Louisiana for a failed bank robbery. He commits a bank robbery, deliberately gets caught, and is sent to the same prison where Bowdre is serving time. Bowdre does not recognize Max whose plan is to convince Bowdre to join him in an escape attempt and kill him in the swamp. Pilar, a local Cajun girl working in the rice fields near the convicts’ camp, gives Max comfort. She knows nothing about Maxs plan to kill Bowdre but knows her way around the swamp. She finds a boat and joins the escape. The boat capsizes early on and Pilar is bitten by a snake. Max kills Bowdre and Pilar dies of the snakebite. Fitch, the last of the murderers, keeps a tobacco pouch with beaded deerskin made from the Indian dress of Maxs mother. Still blinded by revenge, Max pursues Fitch and manages to infiltrate Fitchs gang, calling himself "Nevada Smith". Fitch is aware that Max Sand has killed Coe and Bowdre and is out there somewhere, waiting to ambush him. Though he accepts "Nevada" into the gang, Fitch is wary of him. When the gang sets out to commit a robbery, Max is spotted by Cord, who calls him by name. Max ignores him and the gang rides on. Fitch suspects that one of his men is Max. He vows to kill any man who makes a mistake. As the rest of the gang greedily scoops up the money from the robbery, Max observes them from a hill. Fitch realizes that "Smith" is Sand, grabs his share of the loot and flees. Max pursues him and corners Fitch at a creek. The men exchange fire and Fitch surrenders but Max continues to fire non-fatal shots into Fitch. The outlaw begs to be finished off, but Max decides that Fitch is not worth killing and rides away.
Nevada Smith
1966