Moscow based newspaper reporter Philip Sutherland (Clark Gable) is in love with Marya (Gene Tierney), a ballerina. He and radio broadcaster Steve Quillan (Kenneth More) go to see her perform Swan Lake with the Bolshoi Ballet, and a pleased Philip learns that Marya wishes to marry him and accompany him home to San Francisco. They are married in the U.S. embassy, where they are warned that obtaining an exit visa is often quite difficult. On their honeymoon, they meet Christopher Denny (Richard Haydn), an Englishman married to Maryas good friend Svetlana (Anna Valentina), who is pregnant. But when he is seen taking innocent photographs, Denny is taken into custody and banished from Russia. Svetlana gives birth to a son in Philip and Maryas apartment. Cold War tensions are heightened, and when the Sutherlands attempt to leave, Marya is detained. Philip flies home alone and is unable to get permission to return. He travels to London, where he and Joe Brooks (Bernard Miles), an experienced boatman, hatch a scheme to sail to a Baltic coast town Tallinn where the Bolshoi is scheduled to perform, in order to clandestinely leave with Marya. At first, he asked Christopher to sail with him so that they could also spirit away Svetlana. But, Christopher declines, as he does not want to subject his young son to the rigors of the sea. Before sailing off, Christopher shows up at the dock ready to join the journey, explaining that his son died after becoming ill with a fever just a few weeks prior. Quillan offers to help by giving them coded instructions on his radio broadcasts as to what time they will meet Marya and Svetlana in the ocean. At their rendezvous point, Svetlana swims out safely to the boat, but says an added ballet performance has forced Marya to stay behind. Philip swims ashore. Stealing a medical officers clothes, he attends the ballet. During the bows at the end of the ballet, Marya pretends to faint after seeing Philip in the audience. After examining her in a backstage room, Philip departs with her (apparently to the hospital). But, dancer Valentina Alexandrovna (Belita) recognizes him as her husband and informs the authorities. The pursued car of the Sutherlands goes off a pier. But, first, they leap to safety, and swim together to the dinghy. They embrace as Joe rows them to the boat.
Never Let Me Go (1953 film)
1953