Seaman Johnny Drake (Dennis Hopper), while on shore leave in San Diego, meets a girl named Mora (Linda Lawson) in a local jazz club. Mora tells him that she makes her living appearing as a mermaid in a sideshow attraction on the boardwalk, operated by a Captain Murdock (Gavin Muir). She lives in an apartment above the amusement park that houses the merry-go-round. Soon, she and Johnny fall in love. Johnny becomes acquainted with the merry-go-round operator and his daughter, who warns Johnny that Mora may be dangerous. Her two previous boyfriends have both drowned under mysterious circumstances. As Mora and Johnny become closer, Mora tells him that she believes she is a Siren, one of the mythical mermaids who, according to legend, lure sailors to their deaths. For some time, she has been followed and approached by a mysterious and seemingly sinister woman (Marjorie Cameron) whom she believes is one of the Sirens, calling her return to the sea to fulfill her destiny. Mora believes she is responsible for the deaths of her former boyfriends, and warns Johnny that it might be better for him to stop seeing her. Johnny is unable to believe Mora is capable of killing anyone, thinking that she must be suffering from a delusion. On the day of the full moon, Mora invites Johnny on a scuba diving outing. After briefly trying to dissuade her, he somewhat uneasily accepts. During the dive, Mora, afraid that she will kill Johnny as she believes she has killed her former boyfriends, cuts Johnnys air hose, forcing him to surface. Remaining below, she swims away into the depths of the sea, surrendering to what she believes is her destiny. Johnny is devastated, but returns to the boardwalk the following evening and goes to the sideshow, where he finds Captain Murdock at the entrance, as usual, calling to passersby. When the Captain looks away, Johnny reaches up to the stand, buys a ticket anonymously and enters the sideshow tent. Peering into the tank, he sees Mora, only now, instead of lying at the bottom of the tank and languidly combing her long hair, she floats on the surface, her lifeless eyes staring upward. In a moment, Captain Murdock appears, brandishing a gun. He tells Johnny that it was he who killed Moras former boyfriends because he couldnt bear the thought of her leaving him. Murdock fires at Johnny, but misses. The gunshots attract the attention of two policemen patrolling the boardwalk, and Murdock and Johnny are taken into custody. At the police station, Murdock confesses to killing Moras former boyfriends. He then relates the tale of how he found Mora, a young and helpless orphan wandering about on a Greek island, and adopted her. Knowing she would grow up and fearing that one day she would leave him, he planted the idea in her mind that she was a mermaid, incapable of living the life of a normal woman, as a way of binding her to him forever. Eventually, she did grow up and began to attract the attention of young men. Realizing that she was being drawn away from him, Murdock killed her former boyfriends out of desperation and let her think that she had caused their deaths. While Johnny understands and accepts the Captains account, one mystery remains: Who is the strange, elusive woman in black, who seemed to be following Mora and whom Mora thought was calling her to return to the sea? Captain Murdock denies any knowledge of such a woman, while the police lieutenant thinks Murdock may be protecting the woman. The shore patrol arrives to take Johnny into custody and return him to his ship. The merry-go-round operators daughter, who has taken an interest in him, visits the police station to bid him goodbye. He tells her that he will try to return on a future leave.
Night Tide
1961