On a Los Angeles sidewalk, Ben Fraser (James Gregory) asks James "Jim" Vanning (Aldo Ray) for a light, then after some idle chitchat, boards a bus. Jim goes into a bar. Marie Gardner (Anne Bancroft), sitting beside him, asks to borrow $5 because she forgot or lost her wallet. He agrees and she accepts his dinner invitation. The dinner conversation reveals that Marie is a model, Jim a commercial artist. They make a date for the next day. Leaving the restaurant, they are met by John (Brian Keith) and Red (Rudy Bond). Marie leaves. The two men drive Jim to a deserted spot. They do not believe him when he claims not to know where their $350,000 is. After knocking him out, they discover the slip of paper on which Marie had written her name, phone number and address. An intermittent flashback ensues, alternating with action in the present. Jim and his close friend, Dr. Edward Gurston (Frank Albertson), are on a hunting trip in Wyoming when they see a car go off the road. They go to help. John and Red get out of their wrecked car. Gurston sets Johns broken arm in a splint. Red then pulls out a gun on them. They are bank robbers. Red shoots Gurston in the back with a hunting rifle, and then he tries to kill Jim with a pistol to make it look like a murder–suicide. He misses; the bullet hits a rock, and a shard strikes Jim in the head, drawing blood, knocking him out and making him appear dead. He awakens to discover the thieves have taken Gerstons medical bag by mistake and left behind the similar looking bag containing the loot. When the killers return, Jim flees through the snow, shaking off his hunters by wading up a creek. However, when he comes upon a shack, he loses the bag somehow. In the present, Jim manages to fight his way free and escape in their car. He goes to Maries apartment and angrily confronts her, believing she set him up. She convinces him otherwise. When he realizes his pursuers must have the piece of paper with Maries address, he warns her to go into hiding for her own safety. Jim spots John and Red driving up. He and Marie slip out and head to his place. Ben is secretly watching. Jim tells Marie he has been waiting for the roads to be cleared of snow so he can search for the money. The next morning, he buys two bus tickets to Moose, Wyoming. Ben, tailing him, finds out where he is going. Marie agrees to go with him to Wyoming, but first she has to do some modelling at a fashion show that afternoon. Earlier, John found the name of her modelling agency at her apartment. She spots John and Red in the audience. When Jim shows up, she runs to warn him. He and Marie jump in a cab and drive to the bus station. Ben boards the bus too. When they reach Moose, Ben tells Jim who he is: an insurance investigator. He does not believe Jim is a murderer or a thief. Ben found bullet casings at the campsite that match one at the robbery site. Jim, accompanied by Ben and Marie, retraces his steps. Near the shack, they spot fresh tracks. They head toward the shed, only to find that John and Red found the bag shortly before. John tells Red to tie the three up, as gunshots can be heard for miles. Red grudgingly complies with Marie and Ben, but intends to kill Jim. The two men point their guns at each other in a Mexican standoff. Red seems to back down, but when Johns guard is down, he shoots John. Jim manages to get Johns rifle. Red fires at him, but runs out of bullets. Then Red gets into a parked snowplow with rotating blades in front and steers it toward the shed and Marie and Ben. Jim goes after him and manages to steer the snowplow away. In the fighting, both men end up on the ground in front of the driverless vehicle. Jim gets clear, but Red is not so fortunate.
Nightfall (1957 film)
1957