Lora Hart applies for a job as a trainee nurse in a hospital, but is rejected by the Superintendent of Nurses, Miss Dillon, for not having graduated from high school. Fortunately, a chance encounter with the hospitals chief of staff, Dr. Arthur Bell, in an uncooperative revolving door, gets that requirement waived. Loras roommate and fellow nurse, Miss Maloney, becomes her best friend. Lora is assigned to night duty in the emergency room. One night, Lora treats bootlegger, Mortie, for a gunshot wound and earns his gratitude by letting herself be persuaded not to report it to the police as required by law. He also admires the pretty young nurse. After she passes her training, Lora is hired for private duty, looking after two sick children, Desney and Nanny Ritchie. She moves into the Ritchie mansion, where there is always a party going on. The childrens socialite mother, Mrs Ritchie, lives in an alcoholic stupor, infatuated with the brutish chauffeur Nick. When a drunken guest tries to molest Lora, Nick knocks him out. When Lora refuses his demand that she pump out the stomach of a very drunk Mrs. Ritchie, he knocks her out and takes her to her room. The Ritchie family physician is "society doctor", and apparent drug addict, Dr. Milton Ranger. Lora becomes alarmed by Dr. Rangers treatment of the children, because she sees that they are being slowly starved to death, but she is unable to get anybody to take her seriously. She quits and takes her suspicions to Dr. Bell. He is initially reluctant to interfere with another doctors patients, but eventually advises her to return to her job so she can gather evidence. She persuades Dr. Ranger to take her back. Nanny Ritchie becomes so weak, Lora fears for her life and tries unsuccessfully to get Mrs. Ritchie to show any concern. By chance, Mortie is delivering liquor to the perpetual party at the mansion. Desperate, Lora sends Mortie for milk for a milk bath for Nanny, a folk remedy recommended by the frightened housekeeper, Mrs. Maxwell. Mrs. Maxwell gets drunk and confides her suspicions to Lora. The girls have a trust fund from their late father. Nick ran over and killed their sister with his car, and with Dr. Rangers connivance, is deliberately starving the little girls to death. The trust fund will pass to the drunken and infatuated Mrs. Ritchie, and Nick will marry her for the money. After being threatened by Mortie, Dr. Bell shows up and examines Nanny. However, when he tries to take Nanny to the hospital, Nick knocks him out. Mortie stops Nick from interfering any further, and Nannys life is saved by an emergency blood transfusion provided by Lora. The next day, Mortie gives Lora a lift in his car. To allay her worries, he informs her that he told some of his friends that he didnt like Nick. Elsewhere, an ambulance brings a corpse dressed in a chauffeurs uniform to the hospitals morgue.
Night Nurse (1931 film)
1931