On the way to meet his former boss, railroad tycoon Ben Kimball (Jay C. Flippen), Grant McLaine (Stewart) rescues a young boy, Joey Adams (Brandon deWilde), from Concho (Robert J. Wilke). Ben informs Grant that his payroll has been robbed three times already by a gang led by Whitey Harbin (Dan Duryea) and the Utica Kid (Murphy). If Bens workers dont get paid soon, they will all leave the end-of-track work camp. Grant accepts the undercover job of carrying $10,000 to the crew by train. When the train is held up again, Grant hides the money in a shoebox carried by Joey. The ploy works, but the young boy turns out to be friends with the Utica Kid, who takes him along with him. When the robbers cannot find the money, Whitey takes Bens wife Verna (Elaine Stewart) to hold for ransom. Concho, a gang member, pistol-whips Grant, tumbling him down the steep embankment unconscious. The train leaves without him. When Grant wakes up, he trails the gang to an abandoned mining camp. He boldly asks to join up, revealing that he is the Kids older brother [interestingly, the Kids given name is Lee]. Utica is suspicious of his heretofore honest sibling, so Whitey (who dislikes the Kid) accepts him. Concho tries to shoot Grant unexpectedly, but Grant is faster to the draw. Afterwards, he tells the Kid where the money is, in an attempt to reform his brother. It doesnt work. The Kid gives Grant ten minutes to leave before he tells the gang, but Grant calls his bluff. Then, railroad employee Will Renner (Herbert Anderson) shows up to collect his share of the loot. He had been Whiteys informant. He recognizes Grant (by the song he sings and plays on his accordion) as the man assigned to deliver the payroll. A gunfight ensues, in and out of the barroom. Grant, Verna and Charlotte "Charlie" Drew (Dianne Foster), the Kids girlfriend, take refuge behind the bar temporarily. Grant sends Verna to safety down the mountain in an ore tram. Charlie refuses to leave. Meanwhile, the Kid is planning to quietly leave with Joey and the money. However, Joey rushes to Grants side, and the Kid reluctantly joins forces with his brother. They kill all the gang members except Whitey. When Whitey crawls up close and shoots at Grant, the Kid steps in, taking the bullet. Grant then kills Whitey. Grant buries his brother before they ride to the camp. With Grants urging, Joey gets to work on his "promised" job, hauling water. Grant decides that his old job of railroad troubleshooter is a "better fit" than the offered position of being next in charge. The final scene is of the locomotive moving down the valley along the river into the foreground, with the theme song "Follow the River" softly playing.
Night Passage (film)
1957