Larry Daley is a divorced man from Brooklyn, hoping to find a good job to impress his ten-year-old son Nick, but his ex-wife Erica believing he is a bad example for their son. Larry is hired at the American Museum of Natural History to replace the retiring security guards Cecil Fredericks, Gus, and Reginald. Larry meets the museum’s neurotic curator Dr. McPhee, and very attractive museum docent Rebecca Hutman, who plans to write a dissertation on Sacagawea. On his first night, Cecil hands Larry an instruction manual on what to do in the museum, warning him not to let anything “in or out.” Larry soon discovers that at night, the museum’s exhibits come to life and cause havoc for him. Amongst the lively exhibits are a playful Tyrannosaurus skeleton named Rexy; a mischievous capuchin monkey named Dexter who destroys the instructions; the warring miniature factions of cowboys and legionnaires led by Jedediah and General Octavius; violent Attila the Hun and his army; a talking Easter Island Head that desires gum who calls Larry "dum dum"; the fire-seeking neanderthals; and a wax model of Theodore Roosevelt, who is in love with Sacagawea. Roosevelt explains to Larry that the exhibits have come to life every night since the arrival of an Egyptian artifact, the Tablet of Akhmenrah, the mummified pharaoh trapped in his sarcophagus. He also explains to Larry that as night guard, it is his job to make sure that no exhibit sets foot out of the museum, otherwise they will disintegrate into dust if the sun rises while they are outside. The next day, Cecil advises Larry to research history to make up for the instructions’ destruction. He studies in libraries and from Rebecca. Larry puts his new knowledge to good use on his second night, but some of his plans backfire and the neanderthals set their exhibit on fire, leading to one becoming dust after venturing outside. After having doubts and almost getting fired the next day, Larry offers to introduce Sacagawea to Rebecca, but she thinks he is mocking her. On his third night, Larry brings Nick to the museum to watch the exhibits come to life, but they strangely do not. They catch Cecil, Gus, and Reginald stealing artifacts, who explain the tablet’s magic has allowed them to feel physically young in their old age, and plot to frame Larry for the theft while they enjoy a happy retirement. Nick activates the tablet, but Cecil steals it, locking Larry and Nick in the Egyptian exhibit. They free Akhmenrah, and rally the exhibits to stop the thieves and retrieve their colleagues who fled out into Central Park. Gus and Reginald are captured, but Cecil escapes by stagecoach. Larry and several exhibits give chase, where they stop Cecil and recover the tablet, using its magic to escort all of the exhibits back into the museum before sunrise. Rebecca witnesses this and makes amends with Larry and is subsequently introduced to Sacagawea. The next day, McPhee fires Larry after watching news reports of sightings of the exhibits last night, but once they start to leave the museum, they find out that the reports have caused an increased number of visitors, and Larry is immediately rehired. Near the end of the end of the film, Larry, Nick, and the exhibits throw a party in the museum. During the credits, it is shown that Cecil, Gus, and Reginald have been forced to serve as museum janitors for their crimes.
Night at the Museum
2009