Tom is chasing Jerry around Mammy Two Shoes, while she is yelling out confusing instructions on where to chase Jerry. She has a broom ready to hit Jerry but instead she bungles things by clumsily hitting Tom on the head causing the cat to forget who he is and believing he is a mouse like Jerry, except hes rude. Tom terrorizes Two Shoes by shaking the chair, causing her to fall off it, before she quickly flees from the deranged cat. Jerry then overhears the terrified Two Shoes on the phone talking to a doctor about Tom. She hears from the Doctor that Tom is suffering from amnesia - a term she doesnt understand. Seeing Tom approaching her with mischief on his mind, Two Shoes has to cut her phone conversation short before she can find out more details about Toms current illness. The hapless housemaid begs Tom to leave her alone and attempts to evade him by walking away on stilts. Tom mischievously pulls the stilts from under her, causing Two Shoes to fall down with an enormous crash, silencing her. The deranged feline then runs back into the mouse hole and break Jerrys bed, Jerry finds Tom even more annoying as a rodent than as a cat, and so plots to bring him back. Jerry then runs to get the medical encyclopedia to learn more about amnesia. He reads that "memory can be restored by a sharp blow on the head". Jerry whistles and gets Toms attention with a piece of cheese. Jerry then hides behind a curtain with a baseball bat. Tom starts searching for Jerry and every time Jerry swings to hit Tom, Tom coincidentally moves out of the way, exhausting Jerry. Jerry then tries dropping a bowling ball onto a piece of wood where a piece of cheese is sitting. Tom comes out of the mouse hole and eats the cheese. Jerry drops the ball, launching Tom headfirst into the ceiling. This cures him of his amnesia, but when Tom lands back onto the wood, the bowling ball flies into the air and falls on his head, sending him back to his mouse-like state. Jerry then puts down a trail of cheese for Tom and he tries to drop a vase on his head. Jerry sets down another trail of cheese that leads under the piano. Jerry has tied a string to the piano leg and when Tom walks under the piano, Jerry pulls the leg out of the piano causing it to fall. Again, Jerrys attempts miss. Tom continues the trail through a door and an iron barely misses him as well. Tom reaches a big piece of cheese and Jerry cuts a rope tied to an anvil. But the anvil cuts off the back of his skin and crashes through the floor, again missing him. Jerry sits down disgusted, hes tried everything. Tom then gives Jerry a piece of cheese, but Jerry doesnt want it and throws it away. It lands in an egg cup on the shelf, which rolls and knocks a dish, which rolls into a laundry basket and into the broom. The broom falls over and releases a door which holds the ironing board, which hits Tom on the head, finally curing him of his amnesia. Jerry lets out a happy scream and runs to his mouse hole. He kisses Tom and then lies down on his bed to relax. Tom also lies down right outside Jerrys mouse hole. Jerry looks outside and sees a recovered Two Shoes reading a medical book and holding a baseball bat whilst creeping stealthily towards the sleeping cat. She apparently attempts to cure Tom of his amnesia with a blow to the head, not knowing that he is already back to normal. Jerry motions to stop the bungling maid but she hits Tom anyway, unknowingly bringing his amnesia back. Jerry returns to his mouse hole while Tom, after once again dealing with Mammy, re-enters the mouse-hole, and returns to his mouse-like state. He kicks Jerry off his bed and lies on it. It breaks again. A frustrated Jerry gives up.
Nit-Witty Kitty
1951