Former conman Nick Blake (Garfield), a soldier returning to New York City after World War II, looks up his old girlfriend Toni Blackburn (Faye Emerson) to get the money she has been holding for him while he was in the army. Toni claims that she lost the money investing in a nightclub before selling it to Chet King (Robert Shayne), who employs her there now as a singer. Nick has discovered Tonis affair with King, however, and gets his money back. Nick looks up old conman Pop Gruber (Walter Brennan), who feels hes getting too old for the con game and that if he keeps it up, he will end up "selling pencils on the side of the road." Nick and his crony Al (George Tobias) travel to Los Angeles, where another con artist, Doc Ganson (George Coulouris), has spotted a sucker, but has neither the money nor the charm necessary for the job. Doc reluctantly approaches Pop to recruit Nick, even though there is bad blood between them. The plan is to have Nick, a ladies man, romance rich recent widow Gladys Halvorsen (Fitzgerald) and persuade her to invest in a phony tugboat business. Nick agrees on the condition that he get two-thirds of the proceeds, increasing Docs bitter resentment of the younger, more successful man. The plan hits a snag when Nick falls in love with the intended victim and decides to back out of the con. At the same time, Gladys business manager, Charles Manning (Richard Gaines), has found out about Nicks criminal past and alerts both Gladys and the authorities. The law cant touch Nick since he hasnt yet taken any money. Nick admits the truth to Gladys anyway. However, she is hopelessly in love and refuses to let him go. Nick decides to pay the others the $30,000 he promised them, using his own money. Toni shows up, though, and learns of the aborted scheme. When she tells Doc that she is sure Nick intends to marry Gladys (and her $2,000,000), the gang kidnaps the widow for a larger share of her money. Pop is able to follow them to their hideout. In the ensuing gunfight, Nick rescues Gladys, but both Doc and Pop are killed.
Nobody Lives Forever (1946 film)
1946