In Texas, 1980, hitman Anton Chigurh strangles a deputy sheriff to escape custody and uses a captive bolt pistol to kill a driver and steal his car. He spares the life of a gas station owner after the owner accepts a challenge and successfully guesses the result of Chigurhs coin flip. Hunting pronghorns in the desert, Llewelyn Moss comes across the aftermath of a drug deal gone awry. He finds several dead men and dogs, a wounded Mexican begging for water, and two million dollars in a briefcase. He takes the money and returns home. That night, Moss returns to the scene with water. He is pursued by two men in a truck and escapes. At home, he sends his wife, Carla Jean, to stay with her mother, then drives to a motel in Del Rio, where he hides the case in the air conditioning duct of his room. Chigurh, hired to recover the money, kills his employers after obtaining a clue to Mosss identity. Arriving to search Mosss home, he uses his bolt pistol to blow the lock out of the door. Investigating the break in, Sheriff Tom Bell notices the blown-out lock. Using a tracking device hidden with the money, Chigurh goes to Mosss motel and kills a group of Mexicans who are preparing to ambush Moss in his room. Moss has rented a second room adjacent to the Mexicans room with access to the duct where the money is hidden. He retrieves the briefcase just before Chigurh opens the duct and finds it empty. While staying at a hotel in Eagle Pass, Moss discovers the tracking device, but Chigurh has already found him. Their firefight spills onto the streets, killing a civilian, and both are wounded. Moss flees to Mexico, stashing the case of money in weeds along the Rio Grande. Severely injured, he offers money to some musicians, who take him to a hospital. Carson Wells, another hired operative, fails to persuade Moss to accept protection in return for the money. Chigurh cleans and stitches his own wounds with stolen supplies and sneaks up on Wells at his hotel. After Wells unsuccessfully attempts to barter for his life, Chigurh kills him in his hotel room. Moss telephones the room and Chigurh answers. Chigurh tells Moss that he will kill Carla Jean unless Moss gives up the money; he remarks that he will kill Moss regardless. Moss retrieves the case from the bank of the Rio Grande and arranges to meet Carla Jean at a motel in El Paso, where he plans to give her the money and hide her from danger. Carla Jean is approached by Sheriff Bell, who promises to protect Moss. Carla Jeans mother unwittingly reveals Mosss location to a group of Mexicans who had been tailing them. Bell reaches the motel rendezvous at El Paso, only to hear gunshots and spot a pickup truck speeding from the motel. As Bell enters the parking lot, he sees Moss lying dead. When Carla Jean arrives, she chokes up upon seeing her husbands dead body. That night, Bell returns to the crime scene and finds the lock blown out. Chigurh hides behind the door. Bell enters Mosss room and sees that the vent has been removed. Later, Bell visits his uncle Ellis, an ex-lawman, and tells him he plans to retire because he feels "over-matched". Ellis clarifies that the region has always been violent. Weeks later Carla Jean returns from her mothers funeral to find Chigurh waiting in her bedroom. She refuses his offer of a coin toss for her life, stating that the choice is entirely his own. Chigurh leaves the house and checks the soles of his boots. As he drives away through the neighborhood, a car crashes into his at an intersection and Chigurh is injured. He bribes two young witnesses for their silence, and flees. Now retired, Bell shares two dreams with his wife. In the first, he lost some money his father had given him. In the other, he and his father were riding through a snowy mountain pass; his father had gone ahead to make a fire in the darkness and wait for Bell.
No Country for Old Men (film)
2007