Charlie Ryan (Burns) returns to his hometown after failed attempts at unmentioned endeavors in California. It becomes apparent that his mother no longer finds Charlies Kerouac-like tendencies to be entertaining as one of her first greetings is telling Charlie shes not going to put up with his crap this time. At first Charlie lays low, embarrassed hes returned home empty handed and unaccomplished. Hero to most of his childhood friends, Charlie appears to be the only one who left their small east coast sea-side town after high school. Word does soon travel instigating a visit from one of Charlies best high school buds. Michael, (Bon Jovi) a thoroughly blue collar kind of guy, is interested in more than just saying hello after all these years. Michaels idea of catching up is letting Charlie know that Claudia and Michael are living together and are planning to be married. Although Charlie tells Michael he is okay with how things have changed, he is shocked and hurt. Claudia,(Holly) it turns out, is a waitress in the small-town luncheonette, complete with skirted pink uniforms and is Charlies high school sweetheart, whom he left behind in the wake of an unwanted pregnancy and abortion. Charlie visits Claudia at work despite his knowledge of her relationship with Michael. Still hurt from Charlies post-high school departure, she tells Charlie to leave her alone. Stuck there most of her life and as her 30th birthday approaches, Claudia dreams of bigger things, but if afraid to take a chance. Other subplots surrounding the love triangle include Claudias sister, Kelly (Britton) who still lives at home and laments the absence of quality dating material. An even sadder subplot involves Claudia and Kellys mother (Danner) who still holds a torch for her husband/father of the girls, even though he has left them. Their mother foolishly and unrealistically maintains that her husband will return, repeating to her daughters that he has done this before and came back. Claudias best friend (Esposito) is so lonely she is willing to throw herself at the recently singled, bald pizza guy. Making matters worse for Claudia is Michaels desire to get married and settle down, which was discussed before Charlies return, but is now being sought by Michael in earnest. Beaten down, free-spirit Claudia takes stock of her life and the people around her in the small town and decides she is not ready to be someones wife, worrying that once she settled for that, its all she would ever be. Claudia is crushed at her mothers hidden pain and the unrealistic belief that her family will be reunited. Charlie is finally able to wear Claudia down and she leaves work early at the luncheonette to spend the night with him. Feeling nostalgic and giddy, the two declare their love for each other and begin a plan to run away together. During this conversation, Claudia tells Charlie there were complications with her abortion and is likely unable to have children. They drive to a motel, but once they are alone, both become thoughtful and somber at the potential of their future together. Meanwhile, when Claudia doesnt come home, Michael checks all their regular hang-outs, increasingly suspicious after it appears Charlie is also nowhere to be found. When Michael checks with Claudias best friends house, he rebuffs her blatant attempt to seduce him. Claudia arrives home early the next morning to Michael sitting at their kitchen table, obviously knowing where she has been. He tells her he doesnt deserve to be treated this way and yells at her to leave. Claudia spends several days of thinking of her life, anguishing over being stuck between Charlie who would offer her excitement, adventure and unpredictability or Michael who would offer her stability, security and a stifling predictability. She consults her mother who has finally come out of her hazy denial after receiving a call from her husband who stated he would not be calling anymore and did not want to be contacted. Her mother tells Claudia to follow her own instincts and make herself happy. In the last scenes, Claudia tells Charlie she has decided not to leave with him and is also not staying with Michael. She tells Charlie she needs to leave by herself and be on her own for a while. She tells Charlie that he of all people should understand that, to which he agrees. Suitcase in trunk, Claudia is seen driving away alone looking happily uncertain but determined to make herself happy.
No Looking Back (1998 film)
1998