Ellen Jessman returns from a skiing vacation and Steve Keiver is at the airport to pick her up in his pal Harrys taxi. Keiver wants to marry Ellen, but as an insurance companys investigator, he doesnt make much money and knows that concerns her. Keivers boss cant give him a raise, but mentions in passing how the recovery of some stolen furs would be worth $10,000, the company being off the hook for the insurance. Keiver bravely but recklessly approaches known mobsters, explaining the proposal. After being roughed up, he eventually cuts a deal and gets a $2,500 bonus from his boss. But when he brings Ellen a diamond ring, he learns shes left town, having married a wealthy man while on vacation. A bitter Keiver decides to keep making deals with criminals for returned stolen merchandise, no questions asked. He makes a lot of money and begins dating colleague Joan Brenson, who has always been attracted to him. But he carries a torch for Ellen, and when shes back in town, Keiver tries to win her back, now that hes rich. The police resent Keivers activities. What he is doing is legal, but barely. Inspector Duggan puts his man OBannion on the case. Ellen and Jane end up together in a large womens lounge at intermission of a Broadway show. Two women rob all the ladies there of their jewelry and flee. Outside the theater, they remove their wigs and turn out to be men. Joan, broken-hearted that Keiver has gone back to Ellen, brings him a message from Harry where he can retrieve the stolen gems. Manston, a mobster who swims in a pool for exercise, has them, but Keiver is double-crossed. Knocked out, the jewels taken from him, Keiver suspects either Joan or Harry of betraying him, but it turns out Ellen has. Shes got the jewels and is after the money herself, along with husband Gordon, but is shocked when Manston decides to torture her to find out where they are hidden. Manston then murders both Ellen and Gordon and ends up underwater with Keiver in a fight to the death. A stronger swimmer, Manston wins, but when he surfaces, Duggan and other armed cops are waiting for him. Keiver is pulled from the pool and survives. Joan is still in love with him.
No Questions Asked (film)
1951