Norbit Albert Rice (Eddie Murphy) and Kate Thomas (Thandie Newton) are best friends as children at an orphanage, which doubles as a Chinese restaurant owned by their father figure Hangten Wong (Murphy), but are separated when Kate gets adopted by an unnamed family. While being bullied by twins in a playground one day, Norbit is saved by a tough, overweight girl named Rasputia Latimore (Murphy) who scares him into being her boyfriend and in turn; protects him from bullies. She protects Norbit from the other children and intimidates them into letting Norbit play with them. Years later, as adults, Rasputias bullying nature gets worse as she grows up to be a grumpy, arrogant, vindictive, and mean-spirited woman. She eventually pressures Norbit into marrying her and bullies, insults, and controls him to make sure that she keeps him all to herself. Norbit is also belittled by Rasputias older brothers Big Black Jack (Terry Crews), Blue (Lester Rasta Speight), and Earl (Clifton Powell), working as a bookkeeper at their local building company. The Latimore brothers also run a "security business" and instill fear in everyone in the town except Mr. Wong, who is the only person in the community that doesnt put up with their antics and refuses to sell his business to them. When Norbit discovers that Rasputia is cheating on him with her dance instructor Buster Perkin (Marlon Wayans), she carelessly brushes it off like nothing happened. Norbit yells at Rasputia and she becomes angered and chases him a couple of blocks. He escapes her and throws away his wedding ring due to her deception. Norbit vents out his anger over Rasputias infidelity at a puppet show for the children at the orphanage. Unexpectedly, during the show, Norbit sees Kate for the first time since childhood. Stunned by her return, his affection for her reignites while he learns she is buying Mr. Wongs orphanage, but he is disappointed to find out the following Tuesday that she is now engaged to Deion Hughes (Cuba Gooding Jr.). With help from his two ex-pimp friends Pope Sweet Jesus (Eddie Griffin) and Lord Have Mercy (Katt Williams) and the other townspeople, Norbit manages to meet up with Kate without Rasputias knowledge. Revealed to be a crooked businessman and gold digger, Deion helps the Latimore brothers in their plan to turn the orphanage into a strip club called Nipplopolis to get a cut in the profit. The Latimore brothers dupe Norbit into getting Kate to sign papers to renew the restaurants liquor license and put it in the Latimores name. Norbits meeting with Kate leads to him helping her rehearse her wedding, where a kiss between the two of them makes her reconsider getting married. When Norbit returns home, he learns that Rasputia witnessed the whole thing (as she drove past and fainted). She threatens to kill Kate if she ever sees Norbit with her again. Kate confronts Norbit after finding out about the deal and sees him in the window of the basement, where he has been locked away by a villainous Rasputia. Norbit reluctantly insults Kate, deliberately driving her away so that Rasputia will not follow through with her previous threat to kill Kate. Satisfied with Norbit hurting Kates feelings, Rasputia adds that Norbit played Kate and has been setting her up since the first day she came back to town. Heartbroken, Kate runs away and Rasputia relishes in her sadness, laughing and mocking her. Fed up with the stress he is under, Norbit decides to leave town for good, but first tries to warn Kate about Deion, but she ignores him. After that, the Latimores reveal their evil plan to Norbit and lock him up in the basement again and Blue is chosen by Rasputia to stay and keep watch. After the other Latimores leave to go to the wedding, Norbit escapes from the basement and past Blues guard and races to the church on his bicycle. Though the Latimores try to stop him, Norbit reaches the church and informs Kate of Deions gold digging schemes. Unfortunately, his proof of Deions divorce settlements were destroyed in the process due to him falling into a pond trying to escape the clutches of the Latimores. However, Deions ex-wives and children show up in person, with each of them revealing conflicting tales about him as Norbit had arranged to provide further proof of Deions wrongdoings. Confronted by them, Deion declares defeat and runs off, effectively ending the marriage. Furious that their plans are permanently ruined, the Latimore brothers try to attack Norbit before finding the townspeople standing up against them. In a blind rage, Rasputia fights her way through the crowd with a spade and prepares to attack Norbit, but she runs away after being harpooned in the rear by Mr. Wong. Her brothers are then chased out of town by Norbits friends. After Kate avows her love for Norbit with a passionate kiss, the two reconcile and Norbit officially divorces Rasputia, using her affair with Buster and her attempted murder of him as grounds for it. Norbit and Kate buy the orphanage and get married under the same tree where they once played as children. Rasputia and her brothers now essentially fugitives move to Mexico and open up El Nipplopolis, where Rasputia becomes their most popular and lucrative stripper, never to be seen again.
Norbit
2007