Rick Kane is approximately 18 years old at the start of the film, having just graduated high school. He uses his winnings from a wave tank surfing contest in his native state of Arizona to fly to Hawaii for the summer before the start of college, in order to try to become a professional surfer. He takes a plane to Honolulu with plans to stay with a surfer that he met in Arizona six months previously. He finds the friend tending bar at a seedy gentlemens club. At the bar Rick meets up with two pro surfers, Alex (Robbie Page) and Mark (Mark Occhilupo), and stays with them at the house of Lance Burkhart. In the morning, he goes out surfing with Alex and Mark and realizes that surfing in the ocean is totally different to surfing in a wave tank. He is not as good as he had initially thought. During this scene he gets in the way of Vince, played by real surfing legend Gerry Lopez, who is leader of a local group named "The Hui" (wave slider club). This causes Vince to wipe out and leads to a confrontation where Rick is chased off the beach, after he realizes his stuff was stolen from the beach by a member of "The Hui". With nowhere to go, he fortuitously runs into Turtle (John Philbin). Kane meets and falls in love with Kiani (Nia Peeples), a beautiful local girl, coincidentally the cousin of Vince, who helps him acclimate to the local culture and customs. Turtle introduces him to Chandler (Gregory Harrison), a shaper and soul surfer, who teaches Rick about soul surfing and Rick masters the art of appreciating and riding the waves. Rick is a talented graphic artist who helps Chandler design a more contemporary logo for his surfboards. The films antagonist is Lance Burkhart (Laird Hamilton), a famous, top-ranked surfer whose competitive and materialistic values conflict with the spiritual teachings of Chandler ("You still have a single-fin-mentality"). The film climaxes with a surf contest on Banzai Pipeline as Rick ends up competing against Lance in a duel of skills and beliefs.
North Shore (film)
1987