Advertising executive Nick Beam (Tim Robbins) thinks his life is going very well, until he returns home from work and finds his wife Ann (Kelly Preston) apparently having an affair with another man. He deduces that the man is his boss, Philip Barlow (Michael McKean), after finding a pair of cufflinks in the kitchen. On the edge of a nervous breakdown, Nick drives around the city until carjacker T. Paul (Martin Lawrence) jumps into his car and attempts to rob him. Turning the tables on his mugger, Nick kidnaps T. Paul and drives him to the Arizona desert. After T. Paul robs a gas station, the pair devise a scheme to rob Philip in revenge for the affair. Nick knows the combination to a safe in his office containing a large amount of cash, as well as the best time to enter, and where not to venture in the building. T. Paul knows the weaknesses of the security system, how to avoid the cameras, and how to get through any electronic locks that they might encounter. Another criminal duo, Davis "Rig" Lanlow and Charles "Charlie" Dunt (John C. McGinley and Giancarlo Esposito) get blamed for the gas-station robbery and pursue the pair to Los Angeles. The duo ram Nicks truck off the road and hold them at gunpoint. After a brief confrontation, T. Paul manages to disarm them, but accidentally shoots Nick in the arm. They make their escape as T. Paul takes Nick to his apartment so his wife can bandage his arm; while there, Nick peruses T. Pauls electrical engineering certification and a stack of rejection letters from employers. The next night, the pair execute their plan. During the robbery, Nick damages his boss prize fertility statue and reveals himself to the security camera, taunting his boss about getting revenge. The pair prolongedly avoid a security guard (Steve Oedekerk) and settle at a hotel. The situation worsens as Rig and Charlie, who swiped Nicks business card and followed them from Nicks office to the hotel, hold T. Paul up, steal the money and place T. Paul in a trap for Nick to deal with when he returns from the bar and from almost having sex with Danielle (Rebecca Gayheart), a flower shop woman Nick met earlier. Nick calls Ann to confront her, but she explains he was wrong about the apparent affair. Nick actually caught Anns sister and her fiancee in bed when they came into town earlier than expected; having never seen her sister before, Nick mistook her for Ann. Philips cuff links were left over from a Christmas party and Ann left them out for Nick to return them to Philip. Overcome with remorse, Nick rescues T. Paul from his precarious predicament and they catch up with Rig and Charlie by chasing them into an alley. Nick shoots the gun out of Rigs hand and they leave them tied up for the police. Nick insists on returning the money back to the safe, assuring T. Paul that nobody will bother to look at the tapes unless something is missing or damaged. T. Paul, who had planned on using the money to move his family out of their troubled neighborhood, gets into a fight with Nick and ends their partnership. T. Paul decides to walk home, while Nick drives home and reunites with Ann as he tells her what happened to him. Returning to his job, Nick is told Philip is reviewing the security tapes to investigate a burglar who vandalized his fertility statue. Nick races to his boss office but he is too late to stop them, only to discover that the tape was recorded over right before the "burglar" removed his mask, and that a man identifying himself as an electrician was allowed into the building earlier in the day. Nick goes to see T. Paul and confirms T. Paul recorded over the tape, saving Nick from losing the existence he himself was trying to escape. In return, Nick convinces Philip to hire an electrician responsible for the security system that was so easily bypassed and offers T. Paul the job, which he happily accepts. In the post-credit scene, a mailman shows up at the gas station in Arizona and returns the money that T. Paul stole.
Nothing to Lose (1997 film)
1997