A man who is not of this earth (Paul Birch) has adopted the name "Mr. Johnson" for moving among the populace of Los Angeles. This alien has a sensitivity to high-decibel sounds and is conspicuous only for his stilted and formal syntax and his sunglasses, which he wears even in the dark. The sunglasses hide his blank, white-eyed stare which kills his victims by burning through their eyes and into their brains. He removes the blood of his first victim - a teenage girl who has just been dropped off by her boyfriend - using a system of tubes and canisters that he keeps in an aluminum attaché case. Johnson is from the planet Davanna, where the inhabitants have developed an incurable blood disease, and he has been sent to Earth to examine the blood of the humans for its usefulness in curing Davannas dying race. Johnson is answerable to an authority on Davanna with whom he can communicate through a device hidden behind a sliding panel in the living room of his Griffith Park mansion. His bodyguard, Jeremy (Jonathan Haze), who also acts as his chauffeur and houseboy, provides him support and protection, but is unaware of his alien nature. Johnson hires nurse Nadine (Beverly Garland) to look after him in his house. Her boss, town physician Dr. Rochelle (William Roerick), is under Johnsons hypnotic control after finding out about his patients peculiar blood cell structure. With a limit on the number of transfusions he can be given, Johnson takes to murdering locals and draining them of blood. Adding to his victims are a strolling Chinese-American man, a sleazy door-to-door vacuum cleaner salesman, and a trio of homeless male drunkards. The police are mystified by these "vampire killings". Johnsons plans are disturbed by the unexpected and sudden appearance of a woman from Davanna (Anna Lee Carroll). While Johnson can command earth humans through telepathy - even to the point of using their native tongue, he can also completely communicate with fellow aliens through telepathy. The alien female asks him for an immediate transfusion, because her physical condition is rapidly deteriorating. Johnson then breaks into Rochelles office, but by accident he steals blood contaminated with rabies. Later, the Davanna woman collapses in the street, dying at a hospital. Nadines friend, police patrolman Harry Sherbourne (Morgan Jones), tries to question Dr. Rochelle about the dead woman, but he is unable to speak while under Johnsons mind control. As a precaution, now fearing discovery, Johnson sends a bizarre oxygen-activated flying, umbrella-like alien creature to kill Rochelle, then eradicates Jeremy, who has discovered evidence of Johnsons murderous tendencies; but Nadine, whom he attempts to kidnap and take with him, manages to call the police as Johnson takes after her through the park in his car. Johnson abandons her and flees, pursued by the arriving Sherbourne on his motorcycle. When Sherbourne turns on his siren, Johnson, to whom the sound is immensely painful, loses control of his car and dies in a crash. After Johnsons burial, Sherbourne and Nadine stand by his grave, which bears the inscription "Here lies a man who was not of this Earth". While Sherbourne expresses mild compassion for Johnson, for his driving force of the rescue of his planet and its dying populace, Nadine refuses to offer any kind of pity. They leave, just as a mysterious man, wearing dark sunglasses, approaches the grave site. Like Johnson, he wears the same sunglasses and carries the same distinctive case containing transfusion equipment.
Not of This Earth (1957 film)
1957