U.S. Navy Lieutenant Commander Tom Farrell is interrogated by two men about how he first met Secretary of Defense David Brice. Farrell describes being invited to an inaugural ball by his college buddy Scott Pritchard, who intends to introduce him to Brice. Pritchard hopes that Brice will transfer Farrell to the Pentagon. On meeting Farrell, Brice is unimpressed and virtually ignores him. Moments later, Farrell begins flirting with another guest, Susan Atwell. The two make love in her limousine and begin a secret relationship, even though she admits to also being involved with a married man. Farrell returns to sea and rescues a crewman from being washed overboard during a storm. Brice reads a newspaper story about the rescue and orders Farrell transferred to his intelligence staff. After Susan and Farrell return from a romantic weekend, her married lover – Brice – arrives at her door. After urging a hurt and jealous Farrell to leave through the back door, Susan assures him that she will leave Brice. Brice sees a man leaving Susans house but cannot see that it was Farrell. After Susan lets him in, an enraged Brice demands to know the name of her other lover, but Susan refuses and orders him to leave. Brice resists, and ultimately pushes Susan to her death over an upstairs railing. After calling Pritchard, Brice is ready to turn himself in since he had been seen by Susans other lover. But Pritchard suggests that if the other man was made out to be a suspected KGB sleeper agent code-named "Yuri", then the other mans elimination could be made a matter of national security. Pritchard cleans Susans house of all evidence that Brice was there, and discovers a negative of a photograph Susan had taken of Farrell earlier. The negative shows a very poor, unidentifiable image of a man. Unaware that Farrell was in a relationship with Susan, Brice orders him to find and arrest "Yuri" and places him in the position of investigating himself. Farrell is told that the city police have not been informed, and that CID officers, commanded by Major Donovan, have been assigned to conduct the investigation. Meanwhile, to protect his concocted story, Pritchard sends two former CIA assassins to eliminate everyone who knew of Brices affair with Susan, beginning with her girlfriends. Attempts to enhance the photo negative begin to bear fruit due to computer expert Sam Hesselman. Meanwhile, Farrell sets out to conclusively link Brice to Susan by searching computer files for evidence that Brice gave her a government-registered gift from the Moroccan foreign minister. Needing more time, Farrell convinces Hesselman to delay the work on the photograph. CID officers bring two witnesses to Donovan who saw "Yuri" with Susan during their weekend. They cross paths with Farrell in the Pentagon and recognize him. Farrell escapes, but the CID begins a search of the Pentagon, knowing that "Yuri" is somewhere in the building. Farrell eludes the search and tells Hesselman that Brice had slept with and killed Susan. Hesselman helps him find the Moroccan gift registered in the State Department database and initiates a print-out so that Farrell will have physical evidence implicating Brice. Thinking that Farrell is delusional, Hesselman tells Pritchard about Farrells relationship with Susan and his belief that Brice murdered her. Pritchard thanks Hesselman and then executes him. Still trying to avoid the CID search, Farrell returns to Hesselmans office and seizes the registry printout. He confronts Brice with this evidence and threatens to go to the police if the search for him is not called off. After Donovan reports that Hesselman has been murdered by "Yuri", Pritchard tells Brice that Farrell was Susans other lover and adds that if the man in the photo is "Yuri" then Farrell is "Yuri". Knowing that Farrell has the printout, Brice improvises a different story: Pritchard, who is homosexual, killed Susan because he was jealous of Brices relationship with her. A devastated Pritchard commits suicide and is apparently revealed to be "Yuri", concluding the search. Farrell quietly sends the printout to the Director of the CIA, an enemy of Brice. As Farrell leaves the Pentagon, the image enhancement of the photograph positively identifies him as Susans other lover. Farrell is picked up by several men while sitting despondently at Susans grave. The flashback ends, and it is revealed that Farrell is "Yuri", the KGBs mole in the Department of Defense. Aware of Brices affair, the Kremlin had ordered Farrell to seduce his mistress and gather intelligence from her. Implying that he should have blackmailed Brice instead of exposing him, Farrells interrogators angrily berate him, saying the situation was "poorly handled". Farrells handler arrives, tells "Yuri" that America is no longer safe for him, and that it is time for him to return to the Soviet Union. Revealing that he genuinely loved Susan, Farrell refuses and tells his handlers that he is finished being a KGB mole. After he leaves the safe house, his handler snaps, "Hell return. Where else does he have to go?"
No Way Out (1987 film)
1987