In 2077, sixty years after a war with extraterrestrials that devastated Earth, humanity has relocated to Saturns moon Titan via a giant space station called the Tet. Gigantic offshore fusion energy generators drain Earths oceans to power the colonies on Titan. Led by mission controller Sally and guided by his housemate and communications partner Victoria "Vika" Olsen, "Tech-49" Jack Harper regularly leaves his tower post to repair downed combat drones that guard the regions and generators against the alien scavengers. Although his memory has been wiped, he has had recurring dreams and visions of being on the observation deck of the Empire State Building with a dark-haired woman. He also collects the occasional artifact that he finds from humanitys past. Vika is concerned about Jacks curiosity, questioning whether they are still “an effective team,” and encouraging him to do his job, so they can join the others on Titan soon. After scavengers destroy a generator, Jack discovers that they have been using the Empire State Buildings antenna to transmit coordinates to outer space. While taking a break at his secret lake house retreat, he watches a crash-landing module of a pre-war spacecraft called the Odyssey. Thinking that the ship contains aliens, he investigates, only to find humans in stasis chambers. One of the humans is the woman from his dreams. Jack protects her chamber from a drone that destroys the others, and later, revives the woman, Julia Rusakova, who makes Vika instinctively jealous. Jack and Julia return to recover her flight recorder, but are captured by the scavengers. They are taken to their headquarters at the Raven Rock Mountain Complex, and the scavengers are revealed to be human survivors. Their leader, Malcolm Beech, wants Jack to reprogram their captured drone to carry nuclear fuel cells to blow up the Tet; he has sensed Jack is different because of the latters hobby of collecting relics. Although Jack refuses, Beech releases them to seek the truth beyond the boundaries of the forbidden radiation zone. When they reach the Empire State Building, Julia reveals that she is his wife. Jack then remembers that he proposed to her there. Julia recalls that she was on a mission to Titan when they were diverted to investigate an alien presence. When the two return to Jacks tower, Vika refuses them entry, and reports her findings to Sally, saying they are "no longer an effective team." Sally acknowledges this, but activates a drone that kills Vika before Julia shoots it down. Jack and Julia escape in his ship, but are shot down by other pursuing drones. The two eject into the radiation zone, which turns out to not be radioactive. Jack discovers another ship with a technician trying to repair a downed drone, and is shocked to see that the tech is a clone of himself who goes by "Tech-52". The clone also is shocked to see Julia. Jack battles and incapacitates his clone, but Julia is accidentally shot. After flying to Tech-52s tower, and discovering an inquisitive Vika clone, he returns to treat Julia then take her to the lake house. At the scavenger base, Beech reveals to Jack and Julia that the Tet was an alien artificial intelligence that destroyed the Moon, causing massive devastation to the planet, and invaded Earth with thousands of Jack clones and drones to wipe out the human race, extracting all of the planets natural resources before moving on. As Jack repairs the captured drone, the base is attacked by other drones, gravely injuring Beech, and ruining the captured drone except for its fuel cells. Jack agrees to deliver Julia to Sally through the stasis chamber. On the way to the Tet, Jack listens to the Odysseys flight recorder, and learns that he was the mission commander, Vika was his co-pilot, and Sally was their mission controller from Earth. When the Tet started to draw in their ship, Jack jettisoned the pod of stasis chambers containing the crew members (including Julia) leaving himself and Vika to be captured. Back in the present, Jack enters a large room full of capsules of Jack and Vika clones. He shows Tet the stasis chamber, but it carries Beech and the fuel cells, which they then detonate, killing themselves and destroying the Tet. On Earth, Julia awakens at the lake house. Three years later, she and her daughter meet the resistance members and "Tech-52" Jack, who has also recovered his memories.
Oblivion (2013 film)
2013