A gang of World War II 82nd Airborne veterans is recruited by Danny Ocean (Frank Sinatra) and Jimmy Foster (Peter Lawford) to rob five Las Vegas casinos (Sahara, Riviera, Wilbur Clarks Desert Inn, Sands and the Flamingo) on a single night.  The gang plans the elaborate New Years Eve heist with the precision of a military operation. Josh Howard (Sammy Davis Jr.) takes a job as a sanitation worker driving a garbage truck while others work to scope out the various casinos. Sam Harmon (Dean Martin) entertains in one of the hotels lounges. Demolition charges are planted on an electrical transmission tower and the backup electrical systems are covertly rewired in each casino. At exactly midnight, while everyone in every Vegas casino is singing "Auld Lang Syne" the tower is blown up and Vegas goes dark. The backup electrical systems open the cashier cages instead of powering the emergency lights. The inside men sneak into the cashier cages and collect the money. They dump the bags of loot into the hotels garbage bins, go back inside, and mingle with the crowds. As soon as the lights come back on, the thieves stroll out of the casinos. A garbage truck driven by Josh picks up the bags and passes through the police blockade. It appears to have gone off without a hitch. Their ace electrician, Tony Bergdorf (Richard Conte), has a heart attack in the middle of the Las Vegas Strip and drops dead. This raises the suspicions of police, who wonder if there is any connection. Reformed mobster Duke Santos (Cesar Romero) offers to recover the casino bosses money for a price. He learns of Ocean being in town and his connection to Foster, who is the son of Dukes fiancée (Ilka Chase). Santos pieces together the puzzle by the time Bergdorfs body arrives at the mortuary. Santos confronts the thieves, demanding half of their take. In desperation, the money is hidden in Bergdorfs coffin, with $10,000 set aside for Bergdorfs widow (Jean Willes). The group plans to take back the rest of the money, making no payoff to Santos, after the coffin is shipped to San Francisco. This plan backfires when the funeral director talks Bergdorfs widow into having the funeral in Las Vegas, where the body is cremated – along with all of the money.
Ocean's Eleven (1960 film)
2001