Set in 1953, the film explores the budding relationship between teenagers Billy Joe McAllister (Benson) and Bobbie Lee Hartley (OConnor) (who corresponds to the unnamed narrator of the original song), despite resistance from Hartleys family, who contend she is too young to date. One night at a jamboree, McAllister gets drunk and seems nauseated and confused when entering a makeshift brothel behind the gathering. It turns out that in his inebriated state, he had sex with another man, later revealed to be his sawmill boss, Dewey Barksdale (James Best). After his intimate encounter with Barksdale, Billy Joe disappears for several days. He then returns, and Bobbie Lee finally submits to her passions at a secluded spot near the bridge, and she encourages him to make love to her. Billy Joe, however, is unable to consummate their relationship due to his guilt. He tells Bobbie Lee that he has been with a man, bids her an enigmatic goodbye, and subsequently kills himself by jumping off the bridge spanning the Tallahatchie River. The local preacher, who had seen Billy Joe and Bobbie Lee together, and other townsfolk spread the false story that Billy Joe had impregnated Bobbie Lee out of wedlock and had committed suicide for that reason. For the sake of the family, Bobbie Lees brother insists that she either quietly pursue an abortion or, if she insists upon having the baby, leave town. Knowing that no one will ever believe that she and Billy Joe had not had sex and that she was never pregnant, Bobbie Lee decides to leave home. Very early one morning, with suitcase in hand, she walks to town to get a bus. On the way she meets Barksdale on the bridge, where he tells her that he is headed to her house to confess to her father and clear her name. She advises him against doing so, noting that revealing the truth would forever tarnish Billy Joes reputation. He initially holds fast to his desire to confess, but Bobbie Lee calmly stresses that the news would further devastate Billy Joes family and leave Barksdale himself subject to criminal prosecution. She also assures him that she does not mind her fate and then adds, "Oh, Ill be back before long; Im only 15. What do I know of the world?" Finally agreeing with the girls logic, he offers Bobbie Lee a ride to the bus station, which she graciously accepts. The film ends with the two of them walking off the bridge together.
Ode to Billy Joe (film)
1976