Peter Gibbons is a programmer at a company called Initech who is frustrated and unmotivated at his job. His co-workers include Samir Nagheenanajar and Michael Bolton, also programmers, and Milton Waddams, a meek collator who is mostly ignored by the rest of the office. The staff constantly suffer under callous management, especially Initechs smarmy vice president Bill Lumbergh, whom Peter loathes. They are further agitated by the arrival of consultants Bob Slydell and Bob Porter, who are brought in to help the company downsize. Peters girlfriend Anne persuades him to attend an occupational hypnotherapy session, but Dr. Swanson, the therapist, dies of a heart attack while hypnotizing Peter. Peter wakes up the next morning newly relaxed, and he ignores repeated phone calls from Lumbergh, who had been expecting him to work over the weekend. He also ignores calls from Anne, who responds by angrily breaking up with him and admitting that she has been cheating on him, confirming his friends suspicions. The following workday, Peter decides to skip work and asks Joanna, a waitress, out for lunch. Joanna and Peter bond over their shared loathing of idiotic management and love of the television series Kung Fu. When Peter finally shows up at work, he casually disregards office protocol, including violating Initechs dress code, taking Lumberghs reserved parking spot, refusing to follow Lumberghs directions, and removing a cubicle wall that blocks his view out the window. The consultants, however, are impressed by his frank insights into the office problems, and they decide to promote him. They also confide that Michael and Samirs jobs will be eliminated; Peter relays this news to them, and the trio decide to get even by infecting Initechs accounting system with a computer virus designed to divert fractions of pennies into a bank account. They believe that such transactions are small enough to avoid detection but will result in a substantial amount of money over time. On Michael and Samirs last day at Initech, the pair along with Peter steal a frequently malfunctioning printer, which the three take to a field and smash to pieces to vent their frustration. At a barbecue, Peter learns that Joanna had previously slept with a colleague identified as "Lumbergh". He assumes it to be his boss and confronts Joanna in disgust. She questions the morality of his financial scheme, and the two split up. Peter then discovers that a bug in Michaels code has caused their virus to steal over $300,000 in only a few days, which is far more conspicuous. Meanwhile, Joanna has finally stood up to her boss and quit, and Peter has discovered that she slept with a different "Lumbergh." Peter admits to her that the scheme was a bad idea and that he plans to accept responsibility for the crime, and they reconcile. He writes out a confession and slips it under Lumberghs office door late at night, along with travelers cheques for the stolen money. Milton, meanwhile, has become increasingly disgruntled at his treatment by management, to the point that he has mumbled threats about setting the building on fire. The next morning, he enters Lumberghs office to reclaim a red Swingline stapler that was taken from him. Peter arrives at work fully expecting to be arrested, but he finds instead that his problem has solved itself. The Initech building is engulfed in flames, and all evidence of the missing money has been destroyed. Peter finally finds a job that he likes, doing construction work with his next-door neighbor Lawrence, while Samir and Michael both get jobs at a rival company to Initech. Milton lounges on the beach at a fancy Mexican resort, complaining about his beverage and threatening to take his business to a competitor.
Office Space
1999