Philip (Paul Henreid), an impoverished, clubfooted, failed artist, is attending medical school in London, using a trust set up for him by a wealthy uncle for tuition. When he initially meets Mildred (Eleanor Parker), she pays scant attention to him and he finds her common and crass, but his wounded pride spurs him to return to the restaurant where she works, hoping to spark her interest. He invites her to accompany him to the theatre and, because she has nothing else to do, Mildred accepts. Philip spends what little money he has on her before she breaks a date with him and an ugly argument ensues. When he discovers she apparently has run off to marry one of her regular customers, Miller (Richard Aherne), he initially is happy to be free from his emotional bondage to her. Philip resumes a relationship with Norah Nesbitt (Alexis Smith), an author he had met in France, but it soon becomes obvious to her that her love for him is returned only as friendship. A pregnant Mildred, abandoned by the married Miller, returns seeking Philips help, and he takes her away to Brighton, willing to marry her and adopt the child. He introduces her to his handsome and personable friend Harry Griffiths (Patric Knowles), who entrances Mildred and steals her away from him. Philip strikes up a friendship with Athelny (Edmund Gwenn), one of his patients, and quickly becomes a regular at the mans family Sunday dinners. He attracts the attention of Athelny’s oldest daughter Sally (Janis Paige), but when he sees the homeless Mildred in the street, he offers her and her baby a place to stay. The relationship is platonic, and Mildred becomes increasingly enraged by Philips apparent lack of interest in her. When he spurns her physical advances, she chases him out of his home and then burns his money and trashes his apartment. Philip catches pneumonia and is nursed back to health by Griffiths, who eventually takes him to the hospital charity ward where Mildred is dying. With the burden of his obsession lifted by her death, Philip returns to Sally.
Of Human Bondage (1946 film)
1946