Along Highway $101.00, approximately 531 miles from "Dollar$, Texas" and near "Deepinahearta", Texas, Bugs rabbit hole in "Deepinahola", Texas upsets oil tycoon Orville, who sounds and acts like Yosemite Sam, because it is not producing any oil. Orville pulls up to the hole in a green stretch limousine that is so long that it requires a long-distance telephone operator in the middle of the car to connect the tycoon to his chauffeur, Maverick, so he can tell Maverick (who does not have a speaking role, but communicates by nodding his head) to stop the car. The tycoon says: "Stop the car, Maverick! Theres a hole on my property that aint a-gushin oil!" On the back door of the limousine, a crest is shown which carries the legend, "Orvil Rich—Texan". Once Maverick stops the car, pulls a motor scooter out from behind the drivers seat (a Western saddle) and rides the scooter back to Orvilles back door. Orville surveys the situation and builds a derrick over top of the hole. Bugs comes up and asks "Whats up doc?" Then He explains and tells Bugs to "git". Bugs tells him that the hole is, in fact, his home and tells the tycoon to drill someplace else. Orville tries to evict Bugs, which gets Bugs dander up. He sends down a box of dynamite and Bugs gives the tycoon a birthday cake with the dynamite sticks for candles. "Now who coulda knowed it was my birthday, especially when it taint?" asks the tycoon. Bugs then asks the him to make a wish. Orville says: "Ah wish...Ah wish...nah: Ive got too much of that filthy green stuff already! I know!" He tries to blow out the candles but the dynamite blows up in his face and blowing his nose off in the process. Orville tries to trick Bugs by saying, "Ive got a proposition to talk to you about." When Bugs shows himself, Orville tries to shoot ("What Ive got to say, Im a-sayin with lead!"), but Bugs fits a pipe through his ladder that has a funnel on one end and an elbow on the other, so then it will direct the bullets into his butt. Orville, enraged, orders Maverick to get Bugs out. Bugs steals Mavericks clothes and comes out dressed as Maverick. Then he decides to get Bugs himself, but cant find him. Bugs lifts the hat to show its him. Orville calls for Maverick, whos still in Bugs hole. Then he, ignorant of the situation, calls up the hole for Maverick to lower some dynamite. Bugs sends down as much as possible, at Orvilles demands, who says: "Ill blow the critter to the outskirts of Dallas!" The hole is so loaded with sticks of dynamite that Orville, who is in the hole, cant see his hand before his face. Bugs calls down and tells him to look in his left hand dresser drawer for his "cigareet" lighter, which he uses while still in the hole. After the explosion, instead of oil, a gusher of carrots comes out of the hole and Bugs exclaims: "Hey! Looks like I brought in a carrot gusher!". After chomping on one of them, he senses some of the audiences slight disbelief at what theyre seeing, adding "Yeah, I know, I know...but anything can happen in Tex-ay-us!"
Oily Hare
1952