In 2007, self-defined environmentalist Lucy Mirando becomes CEO of the Mirando Corporation, succeeding her controversial grandfather, her father and her cruel twin sister Nancy. She announces that they have been breeding a special kind of “super pig”. The twenty-six produced specimens are sent to as many farmers in different locations around the world, and ten years later, one of them will be crowned the winner of a competition to breed the best pig. In 2017, a young girl named Mija lives in the countryside of South Korea with her grandfather and their super pig, Okja. They are visited by Mirando spokesperson and zoologist Dr. Johnny Wilcox, who declares Okja the best super pig and announces they will take her to New York City. Mijas grandfather presents her with a gold pig and explains to her that he saved up money to buy the solid gold item to replace Okja when she was taken away. Devastated, Mija runs away to Seoul to find Okja, where she sees her as she is being loaded onto a truck. Mija chases down the truck but it is intercepted by another truck, run by the Animal Liberation Front (ALF). In the resulting chaos Mija and Okja run away but are eventually saved by the ALF, led by Jay. Recognizing that Mija is Okjas owner, Jay uses another ALF member, K, as a translator to tell Mija that their plan is to put a recording device in Okjas ear and let her be re-captured by the Mirando corporation to show how brutally they treat their animals. Mija tells them to return her to the mountains but K deliberately lies, leading the group to believe Mija is in agreement with their plan. They abandon her, and Okja is recaptured. Meanwhile, footage of Okja and Mija running through the streets of Seoul has gone viral. To minimise the damage, Lucy pays for Mija to come to New York in an Asiana Airlines Boeing 777 to be reunited onstage with her pig. Okja is taken to a laboratory in Paramus, New Jersey where she is forcibly bred with another super pig and bits of meat are extracted from her flesh for a taste test. Members of the ALF overhear the recording through the device they placed in Okjas ear. After the ALF see the forced breeding, K reveals he lied to the rest of the group about Mijas support of the plan in order to continue the mission. In response, Jay attacks K, and expels him from the ALF. In New York City, Mija is forced to agree to the wishes of the Mirando corporation. Jay slips into her room and tells her that they still plan to rescue Okja while on stage. A parade is put on by the Mirando Corporation, who give out free meat in the street. Mija is reunited with Okja who, blinded and battered does not recognize her and attacks. In the resulting chaos, Jay tries to hurt Okja, but Mija prevents him from doing so, calming Okja down so that she recognizes Mija. A video of the mistreatment of Okja is screened by the ALF to the public, who quickly turn on the Mirando Corporation. Mija and the ALF attempt to escape with Okja but fail. Okja is recaptured and the ALF members are arrested. Nancy, having returned to control the company, closes the lab, scraps all of Lucys promotional marketing, and starts full-time operations at their slaughterhouse. Jay and Mija are rescued by K, who had translations are sacred tattooed on his arm. Jay and K take Mija to find Okja in a mass slaughterhouse. The group search for Okja but are unable to find her until Mija sees her going up the ramp to the slaughterhouse. In order to save Okja, she runs through the killing plant and sees many dead super pigs. Mija sees Okja as she is about to be slaughtered and shows the Mirando employee a photograph of herself with a baby Okja. Nancy arrives and tells Mija that Okja must be slaughtered. Mija offers the golden pig to Nancy in exchange for Okjas life. Nancy agrees to the deal whilst subsequently having Jay and K arrested. As Mija and Okja are leaving, they see many more pigs being led to slaughter. A pair of superpigs manages to push their newborn through the fence, and Okja hides it within her mouth to take it away. Back in the countryside, Mija resumes her life with her grandfather, Okja, and the new piglet. In a post-credits scene, Jay is released from prison and gets on board a bus with K and the other members of the organization. With their newest member Kim Woo-shik, a former driver for Mirando Corporation, they plan to disrupt a major meeting involving all of the Mirando shareholders.
Okja
2017