Mammy Two Shoes is standing on a chair, which Jerry is shaking. She calls for Tom, who chases Jerry away from Mammy, but Jerry trips him. Jerry goes back to Mammy and rocks the stool up and down until Tom chases him again. Jerry opens a door and the ironing board, followed by the iron, fall on Toms head. Tom catches Jerry trying to cut down the stool, and Jerry gives him the axe. Mammy urges Tom to hit Jerry, but misses and eventually he chops down the stool. Tom supports Mammy on his head, until he loses his balance. Jerry opens the door of the basement stairway. Tom goes through the doorway, with Mammy still on him, and crashes down into the basement. Mammy retires Tom and calls in Lightning, a ginger orange cat who kicks Jerry out of the house and into the dumpster. Lightning kisses Mammys hand and she praises his etiquette and efficiency. Jerry tries to sneak back into the house, but Lightning kicks him out again. Lightning twists Tom around, and dresses him up with a fake beard and a walking stick, leaving Lightning in charge. The cat shows his true nature by raiding the fridge, until he drops a bottle of milk, which wakes up Mammy. Lightning frames Tom by dumping the fridge contents at Toms feet, stuffing leftovers into his hands and cramming Tom inside a watermelon. When Mammy enters, Lightning nods Toms head when she asks if he had been in the fridge. Lightning kicks Tom into the dumpster, where he sees Jerry and they plot to remove Lightning from the house. Tom and Jerry, armed with a magnet and iron, sneak into the house, and place the iron by a sleeping Lightnings mouth, and the magnet behind his rear. This causes Lightning to swallow the iron, waking him up. As Lightning chases after Jerry, Tom uses the magnet to attract the iron, and therefore pull Lightning back into his fist. Tom then tosses the magnet to Jerry, but Jerry is too light and is dragged along with Lightning until he runs into the iron and latches onto the magnet. Lightning grabs onto a piano leg and Tom, Jerry and Lightning begin a tug-of-war. The duo wins and Lightning is sent through the piano and into a wall. Mammy hears the chaos and enters the room, but soon Jerry starts to terrorize her again by shaking the stool she is standing on. She calls for Lightning, but Lightning is unable to come to the rescue, as Tom is controlling his movements behind the kitchen wall. Eventually, Mammy calls for Tom, who grabs Jerry and pretends to beat him up. Tom helpfully kicks Lightning out of the house, but, forgetting the iron, he ends up setting his foot on fire. Tom, with his scorched foot wrapped in bandages, is given a nice pie from Mammy. Tom takes most of the pie, but leaves the remainder of it for Jerry who, using the magnet, brings the dish of pie to his mousehole and happily tucks into the pie.
Old Rockin' Chair Tom
1948