Upon returning home early from a business trip, attorney Mitch Martin (Luke Wilson) walks in on his girlfriend Heidi (Juliette Lewis) taking part in an orgy. Learning she regularly partakes in them, he decides to break up with her. A few days later, Mitch encounters his high school crush, Nicole (Ellen Pompeo), at the wedding of his friend Frank (Will Ferrell) and makes an awkward impression. Later, he moves into a house located near the campus of the fictional Harrison University in Upstate New York. Mitchs other friend Bernard (Vince Vaughn) throws a housewarming party at Mitchs house, dubbed Mitch-A-Palooza, which is a huge success. Frank gets drunk and is seen streaking by his wife Marissa and her friends, putting a strain on their new marriage. The following morning, the trio run into an old acquaintance whom they used to ridicule at school: Gordon Pritchard (Jeremy Piven), who is now the college dean. He informs them they must vacate the house because its exclusively for campus housing. Bernard proposes starting a fraternity that is open to anyone to meet the housing criteria. The new fraternity carries out several hazing events throughout campus, attracting the attention of Pritchard and other faculty members. At a birthday party for one of Bernards children, Nicole brings her boyfriend Mark and Mitch later walks in on him in the bathroom as hes hooking up with another girl. While initially discreet, Mitch is forced to recount the incident to Nicole when Mark lies that the girl was with Mitch instead of himself. Later, the oldest fraternity member, Blue, has a heart attack and dies during a "KY lube wrestling" match with two college girls at his birthday celebration. At Blues funeral, Marissa asks Frank for a divorce. Plotting revenge against the group, Pritchard asks the student council president, Megan, to revoke the fraternitys charter. Megan, who met her boyfriend at one of their parties, initially remains loyal to the fraternity until the dean bribes her with promises to help her get into law school. By video, he claims that the group is violating university policies, subjecting the students in the non-sanctioned fraternity to expulsion. Mitch learns that the group has the right to bypass the Pritchards ruling if all of their members complete various activities to prove their legitimacy. Frank is able to defeat James Carville in a debate session. Next, the fraternity successfully navigates its way through an academic exam largely due to the assistance of two of Mitchs co-workers, who help everyone cheat. In the school spirit evaluation, the fraternity loses points when Frank unsuccessfully attempts to jump through a ring of fire while dressed as the school mascot. Badly burned and humiliated, Frank rallies to give a strong performance in the floor exercise routine of the gymnastics competition. Bernard manages to complete the rings routine, leaving only the vault exercise remaining. Pritchard chooses Weensie, an obese member of the fraternity, to perform the vault. Amazingly, Weensie executes a perfect landing, allowing the fraternity to pass gymnastics. The fraternity completes the activities with an 84% average. However, Pritchard tells them that their average has dropped to a failing 58% after accounting for the absence of Blue. While the students are in despair, Megan arrives with tape recorded evidence of the Pritchards bribery. After a chase throughout campus, Frank obtains the tape and uses it to get Pritchard fired. The fraternitys charter is reinstated and moves into Pritchards former residence. Nicole visits Mitch as hes moving out of the old fraternity house, and tells him she dumped Mark after catching him cheating. The two reconcile, intent on moving their relationship forward. Mitch and Bernard decide to withdraw from the fraternity. Frank, now divorced, takes over the leadership role. In the closing credits, Mark accidentally drives his car over a bridge and lands on Pritchard, who is fly fishing. The car explodes, killing them both. Meanwhile, Frank runs into Heidi at a grocery store, who invites him to her house to hang out with her "internet friends." He excitedly accepts.
Old School (film)
2003