In the days leading up to World War II, Katie OHara (Ginger Rogers), an American burlesque performer masquerading as American socialite "Katherine Butt-Smith", pronounced byüt-smith, is about to marry Austrian Baron Von Luber (Walter Slezak). Foreign correspondent Pat OToole (Cary Grant) suspects Von Luber of being a Nazi sympathizer and tries unsuccessfully to get information from Katie by deceit, but is warned off by Von Luber. Undaunted, OToole follows the couple to Prague, where OHara and Von Luber marry. After the annexation of Czechoslovakia by Germany, the Von Lubers travel to Warsaw, where the baron sells arms to Polish General Borelski (Albert Bassermann). OToole warns the General of the dangers of trusting in Von Luber. When the General tries the weapons he finds out he has been sold duds and plans to notify his government. When the Germans invade Poland, the weapons prove to be defective. Von Luber is arrested on suspicion but warns his young bride not to worry because no one will be able to bear witness against him. Soon after, the General is assassinated along with a young Nazi the Baron has chosen to sacrifice. While the Baron is in jail OHara and OToole decide to flee the country. However, OHara has given her passport to her Jewish maid Anna, so that the woman and her two children may escape the country. OHara and OToole escape to Norway, Holland and Belgium (all of which subsequently fall to the Germans) and then to Paris all at the hand of Von Luber. In Paris, OHara and OToole go to have new passports made. They meet Gaston Le Blanc (Albert Dekker), an American counterintelligence agent posing as a photographer. LeBlanc persuades OHara to return to the Baron and work as a spy. Von Luber becomes suspicious due to OHaras persistent questioning. OToole agrees to broadcast pro-Nazi propaganda after the Baron threatens to turn OHara over to the Gestapo. OToole is then contacted by American counterintelligence who ask him to accept the offer and betray the Baron. When OHara is found with LeBlanc, who is shot by two Nazi agents, she is placed under house arrest. Anna finds her in the hotel and aids in her escape. OToole goes on the air, but after OHara shows up at the studio, he cleverly manages to make it look as if the baron is trying to overthrow Hitler. Von Luber is arrested, and Pat and Katie sneak away. They board a ship for America, but Katie later runs into Von Luber on board; the baron was able to talk his way out of his troubles. Now he is on his way to the United States to continue his subversive activities. They struggle and Von Luber falls overboard. OHara tells OToole and hesitantly he agrees to tell the Captain. The Captain turns the ship around to search for Von Luber, but when OHara says that Von Luber cannot swim, the Captain happily turns the ship back towards America.
Once Upon a Honeymoon
1942