Gangsters enter a Chinese puppet theater, looking for a marked man. The proprietors slip into a hidden opium den and warn a man named "Noodles", but he pays no attention. In a flashback, he watches the police remove three disfigured corpses from a street. He successfully kills one of the three thugs that are after him but learns that the thugs have murdered his girlfriend while looking for him and finds that someone else has stolen his money. He leaves the city. David "Noodles" Aaronson struggles as a street kid in Manhattan’s Lower East Side in 1920. He and his friends Patrick "Patsy" Goldberg, Philip "Cockeye" Stein, and little Dominic commit petty crimes under the supervision of local boss Bugsy. Planning to rob a drunk at the moment a passing truck hides them from a policeman, theyre foiled by the older Max Bercovicz, who jumps off the truck to rob the man himself. Noodles confronts Max, but a crooked policeman steals the watch they were fighting over. Later, Maxs camera enables them to blackmail the policeman, who was having sex with a teenage girl, and thus start their own gang independent of Bugsy, who had previously enjoyed the policemans corrupt protection. The boys establish a suitcase money fund, which they hide in a locker at the railway station, giving the key to Fat Moe, a reliable friend whos not part of the operation. Noodles is in love with Fat Moes sister Deborah, who aspires to be a dancer and actress. One day, Bugsy ambushes the boys and shoots little Dominic, who dies in Noodles arms, Noodles then stabs Bugsy to death and injures a police officer who tried to intervene. Noodles is arrested and sentenced to 12 years in prison. Adult Noodles is released from jail in 1932 and is reacquainted with his old gang: Max, Patsy, and Cockeye, who are now major players in the bootlegging industry during Prohibition. Noodles reunites with Deborah and tries to rekindle their relationship. Meanwhile, during a robbery, the gang meets Carol, who soon becomes Maxs girlfriend. The gang prospers from bootlegging under Prohibition, providing muscle for union boss Jimmy Conway ODonnell. Noodles tries to impress Deborah on an extravagant date, then rapes her on their way home in a limousine, after which he becomes remorseful. The gangs financial success ends with the repeal of Prohibition, when Max considers a suggestion to set up what was to become the Teamsters union, which Noodles refuses and leaves. Max runs after him and they go to Florida together. While there, Max suggests robbing the New York Federal Reserve Bank, but Noodles sees it as suicidal. Carol, who also fears for Maxs life, convinces Noodles to call the police on his friend for a minor offence, just to keep him in jail for a short time. Noodles does this at an end-of-Prohibition party. Shortly after, Max, who has followed him to the office, knocks him unconscious for calling him crazy. Regaining consciousness, Noodles finds out that Max, Patsy, and Cockeye have been killed by the police, and is consumed with guilt over making the phone call that led to the beginning scenes of the film. Noodles is then seen boarding the first bus to leave New York, going to Buffalo, where he will live in hiding under a fake identity for the next 35 years. In 1968, Noodles receives a letter informing him that the cemetery where his friends are buried has been sold and asking him to make arrangements for their reburial. Realising that someone has deduced his identity, Noodles returns to Manhattan and stays with Fat Moe above his still-open restaurant. While visiting the new cemetery, Noodles finds there, visibly hung for him to take it, a key to the railway locker once kept by the gang, and further notes the license plate of a car that is following him there. Opening the locker, he discovers a suitcase full of cash, like the one kept there and taken away, now with a note saying the money is a down payment on his next job. Noodles hears about the lavish estate of Secretary Bailey, an embattled political figure whose name has been mentioned in news reports of the car explosion that killed the District Attorney. Noodles visits Carol, who lives at a retirement home run by the Bailey Foundation. She tells him that Max planted the idea of Carol and Noodles tipping off the police because he wanted to die rather than go insane like his father, who died in an asylum. He opened fire on the police to ensure his own death. While at the home, Noodles sees a photo of Deborah at the institutions dedication. Noodles tracks down Deborah, now a successful actress. He questions her about Secretary Bailey, telling her that he has received an invitation to a party at Baileys house. Deborah claims not to know much about Bailey, but Noodles already knows they have lived together for years. In the end, Deborah tells him Bailey was a starving immigrant who married a very wealthy woman who died in childbirth. She begs him to not go to the party but leave via the back exit and not the main door of her dressing room, where a young man named David is waiting for her. Noodles leaves via the main door and Deborah explains that the young man is Secretary Baileys son, named David (which is also Noodles given name). David bears an obvious resemblance to Max as a young man (and is played by the same actor), implying that Secretary Bailey is Max. Secretary Bailey is revealed to be Max. Noodles meets with Max in his private room at the party. Max explains that corrupt policemen helped him fake his own death so that he could steal the gangs money and steal Noodles love interest, Deborah, in order to begin a new life as Mr. Bailey, a man with contacts to the Teamsters union. Now faced with ruin and the spectre of a Teamster assassination, Max asks Noodles to kill him. Noodles refuses despite Maxs permission and goading, because, in his eyes, Max died with the gang. As Noodles leaves Baileys estate, he hears a garbage truck start up and looks back to see a man standing at the driveways gated entrance. As he begins to walk towards Noodles, the truck passes between them. As the truck passes, Noodles sees its auger grinding down rubbish, the man nowhere to be seen. In a flashback, a young adult Noodles enters the opium den after his gangs murder, taking the drug and broadly grinning.
Once Upon a Time in America
1984