Geoff Carter (Grant) is the head pilot and manager of Barranca Airways, a small, barely solvent company owned by "Dutchy" Van Ruyter (Sig Ruman) carrying airmail from the fictional South American port town of Barranca through a high pass in the Andes Mountains. Bonnie Lee (Arthur), a piano-playing entertainer, arrives on a banana boat one day. After making her acquaintance, Joe Souther (Noah Beery Jr) crashes and dies trying to land in fog later that day. Bonnie becomes infatuated with Geoff, despite his fatalistic attitude about the dangerous mountain flying, and stays on in Barranca (not at his invitation, as he insists on telling her). The situation is complicated by the appearance of pilot Bat MacPherson (Richard Barthelmess) and his wife, Geoffs old flame Judy (Rita Hayworth). MacPherson is really an alias for Kilgallen. He is shunned and cannot find work for having once bailed out of a plane, leaving his mechanic — the brother of "Kid" Dabb (Thomas Mitchell), Carters best friend — to be killed in the resulting crash. When Geoff is forced to ground the Kid because of failing eyesight, he is short on pilots and offers to hire MacPherson on the understanding that he will fly the most dangerous assignments. MacPherson accepts. Dutchy will secure a lucrative government mail contract if he can provide reliable mail service during a six-month trial period. On the last day of Barranca Airways probation, bad weather closes the mountain pass. Geoff decides to fly a new Ford Trimotor over the mountains. The Kid asks to go with him as co-pilot. When Geoff refuses him, the Kid suggests tossing a coin to decide the matter. When it lands on the floor, Geoff discovers that the Kids coin has two heads. Geoff still agrees to take him along. Just before leaving, Bonnie tries to talk Geoff out of going. She takes his gun out of his holster and points it at him. Knowing that she cannot stop him, she drops the gun on the table, but it accidentally fires, hitting Geoff in the shoulder. Unable to fly, Geoff lets MacPherson take his place. However, MacPherson and the Kid are unable to climb high enough; the plane stalls and falls off. Geoff tells them to turn around, but they decide to try to fly through the fogged-in pass. They encounter a flock of condors. One crashes through the windshield, injuring the Kid; another hits the No. 1 engine, setting it on fire. Later the No. 2 engine also catches fire. The paralyzed Kid tells MacPherson to bail out, but Bat refuses. He manages to crash-land the burning Trimotor in Barranca. The Kid dies from a broken neck, but not before telling Geoff of MacPhersons valor. As a result, MacPherson is finally accepted by the other pilots.  Bonnie is torn between leaving and staying, and confronts Geoff in the hope he will ask her to stay. However, Geoff does not. Then the weather clears and Geoff has to rush off to secure the all-important contract. Before he goes, he offers to toss a coin to decide: heads, she stays; tails, she leaves. Bonnie is disappointed by his seemingly cavalier attitude. As he leaves, Geoff gives her the coin as a "souvenir." At first she is distraught, but then she discovers that the coin has heads on both sides and realizes it was Geoffs way of asking her to stay.
Only Angels Have Wings
1939