In early 1964, in the months following World War III, the conflict has devastated the Northern Hemisphere, polluting the atmosphere with nuclear fallout, killing all life there. Air currents are slowly carrying the fallout south; the only areas still habitable are in the far reaches of the Southern Hemisphere. From Australia, survivors detect an incomprehensible Morse code signal coming from the West Coast of the United States. The American nuclear submarine, USS Sawfish, now under Royal Australian Navy command, is ordered to sail north to the United States to attempt to make contact with the sender of the Morse signal. The submarine is commanded by Capt. Dwight Towers (Gregory Peck), who must leave his new friend, the alcoholic Moira Davidson (Ava Gardner). The Australian government arranges for its citizens to receive suicide pills or prepared injections so they may end things quickly before there is prolonged suffering from radiation sickness. An Australian naval officer, Peter Holmes (Anthony Perkins) and his wife, Mary, who is in denial about the impending disaster, have a baby daughter. Assigned to travel with the American sub for several weeks, Peter tries to explain to Mary how to euthanize their baby and then kill herself should he not be home yet when the end comes; Mary reacts very emotionally to this prospect. One scientists theory is that the radiation level near the Arctic Ocean could be lower than that found at the mid-Northern Hemisphere, possibly indicating that the radiation could disperse before reaching the Southern Hemisphere. This theory is to be explored as part of the submarines main mission. After sailing to Point Barrow, Alaska, they find that radiation levels are, in fact, intensifying. Later, when Sawfish arrives in the San Francisco Bay area, the crew find a city devoid of all signs of life. Ralph Swain, a crewman who had family in San Francisco, deserts the submarine and swims ashore. Scientist Julian Osborn (Fred Astaire) informs Capt. Towers that Swains contact with the radioactive environment will quickly make it impossible for him to return without killing everyone on board. The next morning, through the periscope, Capt. Towers observes Swain fishing in the bay and broadcasts an intercom greeting. Swain has found his parents dead and confirms that no one has survived. He apologizes for leaving, but explains that he preferred to die in his hometown rather on the other side of the world. Towers bids Swain farewell and departs for San Diego. Near San Diego, the source of the radio signals, communications officer Lt. Sunderstrom goes ashore in a radiation and oxygen suit. He has only one hour and will be alerted by a horn blasts every 15 minutes. He discovers that the Morse signal comes from a power station, but it is not a human survivor, just a tilted Coca-Cola bottle hanging by its neck from an open window shades pull cord; random ocean breezes bump the bottle against a "live" telegraph key, sending out random signals. Sunderstrom stands the bottle upright and uses proper Morse Code to send a message describing the bleak situation. He returns to the sub before the hour is up. Sawfish and its crew return to Australia to enjoy what pleasures remain to them before the end. Osborn wins the Australian Grand Prix in which many racers, with nothing left to lose, die in various accidents. Dwight and Moira embark on a weekend fishing trip in the country. Retreating to the resort for the night, they share a romantic interlude inside their room as, outside, a gathering storm howls. Returning to Melbourne, Towers learns one of his crew has developed radiation sickness; the deadly radiation has arrived in Melbourne. Osborn kills himself by carbon monoxide poisoning in his closed garage, with his racing cars engine running. Others line up to receive their suicide pills. Mary Holmes becomes emotionally unbalanced and must be sedated. Later, she regains lucidity in time for her, Peter, and their baby daughter to consume the drug offscreen. Dwight wants to stay with Moira, but many of his remaining crew want to head for home to die in the U.S.; Commander Towers chooses his duty over his love for Moira and joins his crew as they attempt to make it back to a radioactive America. Moira watches as Sawfish leaves Australian territorial waters and submerges for the final voyage home. Within a few days, the last pocket of humanity is dead. The empty, windblown streets of Melbourne are punctuated by the rise of dramatic, strident music over a single powerful image of a previously seen Salvation Army street banner that pleads to the world, to the future: "There is still time … Brother." Nuclear war and the end of humanity can still be prevented.
On the Beach (1959 film)
1959