The film takes place aboard an American submarine in the Pacific during World War II. The subs commander (Brady) is ordered to stop and pick up an underwater demolition team led by Lt. Hayes (Hunter), whose mission is to locate and destroy a U.S. submarine sunken in a lagoon off Bikini Atoll before the Japanese are able to raise it and capture the advanced radar system on board. The members of the demolitions team include Seaman Joseph Malzone (Avalon), Will Sherman (McCrea), and Ronald Davayo (Aki Aleong), the only member of the team who speaks Japanese. Malzone carries a photo of his girl, which he affixes to the torpedo above his bunk. In two musical (and colorful) dream sequences, Malzone expresses his devotion to "The Girl Back Home". Upon arriving at the atoll, the demolitions team meet up with a local band of (historically non-existent) guerrillas, including native interpreter Paul (Marc Cavell) and the buxom Reiko (Eva Six). After Paul is killed by a Japanese patrol, some kind of romance seems to germinate between Reiko and Hayes, or possibly Malzone. Before anything can come of it, a Japanese cutter comes up the (geographically non-existent) river on patrol, and in the resulting skirmish Reiko is killed. The gruff but good-hearted bosuns mate (Backus) is wounded in the same fight, and Sherman has to take him back to Careys sub, where he reports the teams discovery that the lagoon where the radar sub sank is full of Japanese vessels. Carey relays this news to the nearest American carrier. Meanwhile, the rest of the team uses the captured Japanese cutter to sail straight into the lagoon. Malzone and Hayes dive to the sunken sub, but when the crew of a Japanese salvage boat opens fire on the cutter, Davayo rams the boat in a suicide attack. After setting their explosive charges, Malzone and Hayes are guided back to Careys sub by Sherman (possessor of the "finest pair of lungs in the Navy"), just as a fleet of American dive bombers arrive to finish off the Japanese vessels in the lagoon.
Operation Bikini
1963