Set in the desert, Operation: Rabbit opens with Wile E. Coyote running up to Bugs Bunnys rabbit hole and constructing a door. He knocks on the door and Bugs, slightly bemused by the addition to his property, opens it. The Coyote proclaims, in his very first spoken line of dialogue ever, that he is a genius, as well as being faster, taller, and stronger than Bugs, and that he intends to eat the rabbit. He goes on to advise Bugs that it is futile to try and escape, since Bugs "could hardly pass the entrance examinations to kindergarten", an insult that seems to bore Bugs. (Wile E. displays an enlarged self-confidence throughout not only this film but also in other appearances with Bugs, aside from Hare-Breadth Hurry.) An unimpressed Bugs replies, "Im sorry, Mac, the lady of the house aint home. And besides, we mailed you people a check last week," then slams the door in Wile E.s face. The Coyote goes back to his cave hideout (taking the door with him), asking himself: "Why do they always want to do it the hard way?" The Coyotes first plan to trap Bugs is to build a pressure cooker on top of the rabbit hole and cook Bugs alive. He chops up vegetables, throws them down the hole, adds an egg, a drop of cooking oil, some seasoning, tosses it into a salad, then places the pressure cooker on top. Bugs watches Wile E.s work from another hole (suggesting his burrow has a back door), then walks up to him and asks "Whats cookin, Doc?" When Wile E. informs him that "rabbit stew" is cooking ("Gad, Im SUCH a genius!"), Bugs casually observes, "Theres only one little thing wrong with it", that there is no rabbit. As Wile E. frantically looks under the cooker, Bugs gives him a big kick down the hole and sticks the cooker on top of him. Bugs then picks up a bat, goes back down the second hole, singing, and clobbers the Coyote (off-screen), prompting Wile E., with a huge lump on his head, to remark: "Well, back to the old drawing board." In the next scene, the Coyote prepares his second plan: the use of a chute for firing a cannonball into Bugs hole. After the ball arrives in the hole via a cannon and that chute, Bugs uses a second chute to return the ball, where it explodes on target, causing the plan to quite literally backfire on Wile E. Bugs then goes to Wile E.s cave to claim that he is surrendering "on account of I cannot fight no more against such genius," but he wants Wile E. to sign as a witness to his last will and testament. He gives the Coyote the document and a "pen", which is really a burning stick of dynamite. Wile E. pretends to be fooled, but puts out the fuse when Bugs hands over the dynamite ("Very amateurish attempt on my person"). While he gloats ("Being a genius certainly has its advantages"), it is revealed that there is another fuse at the other end of the TNT stick, which explodes on cue. The Coyote returns to his cave and builds a mechanical (and explosive) lady rabbit that will be used as a decoy to trap Bugs. ("Brilliance. Thats all I can say. Sheer, unadulterated brilliance!") Bugs, already anticipating this plan, builds an explosive lady coyote in response ("Fight fire with fire, I always say"). Bugs detonates the coyote robot just as Wile E. is romantically embracing it in his cave. With this distraction, Wile E. completely forgets about the rabbit robot ("Oh, NO..."), which, as he is in the process of trying to throw it out, also blows up in the cave. The Coyote then creates an exploding flying saucer with a radarscope mechanism able to detect birds, mice, and rabbits. The disc flies to Bugs hole, but Bugs thwarts it by putting on a chicken mask. The disguised Bugs then adds "COYOTE" to the radarscopes target options and moves the dial there. The saucer speeds back to Wile E., blowing the entire mountain to smithereens. The Coyote makes one last plan: While admiring his self-status as a "Super Genius," he fills a series of carrots with explosive liquid nitroglycerin inside the explosives shack of a construction site. Bugs, using a tractor, drags the shack to the deserts railroad track and deposits it on the tracks. As Wile E. completes his preparations, a train can be seen approaching. As a train whistle sounds, the Coyote turns to a window to see the train bearing down on him, and futilely pulls down a window shade. When the train hits the shack, all of the explosives in the shack detonate. "Wile E. Coyote - Super Genius", the painfully burned Coyote groans in self-sarcasm while holding a tree branch on the edge of a cliff as the train chugs away below undamaged. Wile E., still dazed and covered in ash, returns to Bugs hole, rebuilds his door, knocks on it and admits defeat. "Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Mud", he says to Bugs before passing out. In response, Bugs says, "And remember, MUD spelled backwards is DUM" (dumb) (a parody of the slogan for Serutan laxatives, "Serutan spelled backwards is natures").
Operation: Rabbit
1952