In the American Civil War, Union forces are reeling after their defeat in the Second Battle of Bull Run. The Pauline Cushman Players are performing for wounded soldiers at a Union military hospital. Pauline, a spy who works for Allan Pinkerton, recommends her close friend and fellow showgirl Gail to become a spy for the Union cause as Operator 13 (the previous Operator 13 having been caught and shot). Gail, disguised in blackface, accompanies Pauline south as her octaroon black maid. The Confederates become aware there is a spy in their midst, and Captain Gailliard is asked to help find out who it is. While washing General Stuart’s clothes, Gail hears he will attend a ball that night. At the ball, Captain Gailliard suspects that Pauline is a spy and finds evidence in her room. Pauline, trying to flee, is arrested and is to be a witness against Gail, who is later sentenced to death. Both women manage to escape and return to the Union lines. Pinkerton decides to use Gail to trap Gailliard, and as part of the plan, she jeers at a parade of Union soldiers and is thought to be a heroine in the Southern newspapers. Gail, as Anne Claibourne, is pardoned by Lincoln and heads south, where Captain Gailliard is attracted to her. However, Gail is later told by Stuarts groom, a fellow spy, that she is known to be a spy and she flees in a Confederate uniform. Gailliard grabs her horse, but she strikes him with a gun and rides off with the groom. Gailliard and others pursue them. The fugitives hide in an abandoned farmhouse. Gailliard finds her. Fortunately for her, a group of Union soldiers are nearby. When they spot the groom, still wearing a Confederate uniform, they shoot him. Gail and Gailliard watch undetected as a Confederate is executed by a Union firing squad. Gail tells Gailliard she loves him and refuses to betray him to the soldiers. Then the Confederates attack. In the fighting, Gail persuades Gailliard to slip away in the confusion and rejoin his side. The war effectively comes to an end when Robert E. Lee surrenders to Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Court House. Afterward, Gail and Gailliard reconcile.
Operator 13
1934