In 1959 U. S. Navy Rear Admiral Matt Sherman (Cary Grant), ComSubPac, boards the obsolete submarine USS Sea Tiger, prior to her departure for the scrapyard. Sherman, a plankowner and her first commanding officer, begins reading his wartime personal logbook, recalling earlier events. On December 10, 1941, a Japanese air raid sinks Sea Tiger while docked at the Cavite Navy Yard in the Philippines. Lieutenant Commander Sherman and his crew begin repairs, hoping to sail for Darwin, Australia before the Japanese overrun the port. Believing there is no chance of repairing the submarine, the squadron commodore transfers most of Shermans crew to other boats, but promises Sherman that he will have first call on any available replacements. Lieutenant (junior grade) Nick Holden (Tony Curtis), an admirals aide, is reassigned to Sea Tiger despite lacking any submarine training or experience. Holden demonstrates great skill as a scrounger after Sherman makes him the supply officer. He teams up with Marine Sergeant Ramon Gallardo, an escaped prisoner (he was caught misappropriating Navy property to run his own restaurant in Manila), to obtain materials desperately needed for repairs, persuading the captain to sign on Ramon as the ships cook. What Holden and his men cannot acquire from base warehouses, they "midnight requisition" from various military and civilian sources. Refloated and restored to barely seaworthy condition, with only one of her four diesel engines operable, Sea Tiger puts to sea after a native Witch Doctor performs a protection spell for the voyage. Chief Motor Machinist Mate Tostin (Arthur OConnell) had previously confided to Sherman that theyve got No. 1 engine, hell answer for No. 2 when it is back together, and that he has been stripping parts from Nos. 3 and 4 to get Nos. 1 and 2 going. No. 1 does run, but is prone to backfiring and belching smoke. Sea Tiger reaches Marinduque, where Sherman reluctantly agrees to evacuate five stranded female Army nurses. Holden is attracted to Second Lieutenant Barbara Duran (Dina Merrill), while Sherman has a series of embarrassing encounters with the well-endowed and clumsy Second Lieutenant Dolores Crandall (Joan OBrien). Later, when Sherman prepares to attack an enemy oiler moored to a pier, Crandall accidentally hits the "fire" button before the Torpedo Data Computer has transmitted all the settings to the torpedo. It misses the tanker and instead "sinks" a truck ashore. Sea Tiger flees amidst a hail of shellfire.  Sherman tries to put the nurses ashore at Cebu, but the Army refuses to accept them, as the Japanese are closing in. Unable to obtain needed supplies from official sources, Sherman allows Holden to set up a casino in order to acquire them from the soldiers who have taken everything useful into the hills for resistance use. Chief Torpedoman Molumphry has been asking for paint. Holden manages to get some red and white lead primer paint, but does not have enough of either to prime the entire hull. The two are mixed together, resulting in a pale pink primer that the chief reluctantly has applied. A Japanese air raid forces a hasty departure before the crew can apply the top coat of navy gray. Tokyo Rose mocks the mysterious pink submarine, while the U.S. Navy believes it to be a Japanese deception, ordering that it be sunk on sight. An American destroyer spots Sea Tiger and opens fire, then launches depth charges when the submarine crash dives. Sherman tries an oil slick and then launches blankets, pillows, and life jackets, but the deception fails. At Holdens suggestion, Sherman ejects the nurses lingerie. Crandalls bra convinces the destroyers captain that "the Japanese have nothing like this", and he ceases fire. Sea Tiger, still painted pink, arrives at Darwin battered but under her own power. Shermans reminiscence ends with the arrival of Sea Tigers Commanding Officer, Commander Nick Holden, his wife (the former Lieutenant Duran), and their sons. Sherman promises Holden command of a new nuclear-powered submarine, named Sea Tiger. Shermans wife (the former Lieutenant Crandall) arrives late with their daughters and rear-ends her husbands staff car, causing it to lock bumpers with a Navy bus. When it drives away, dragging his car with it, Sherman reassures his wife that it will be stopped at the main gate. Commander Holden takes Sea Tiger out, and her final departure is punctuated by a backfire and belch of smoke from the No. 1 diesel engine, still troublesome after all these years.
Operation Petticoat
1959