Frank Detorre (Bill Murray) is an unkempt, slovenly zookeeper at the Sucat Memorial Zoo in Rhode Island. Depressed by the loss of his wife Maggie years earlier, he copes by eating unhealthily and ignores basic hygiene, to the annoyance of his young daughter Shane (Elena Franklin). During a lunch break, Frank eats a boiled egg he dropped onto the ground after a chimpanzee had put it in its mouth. Inside Franks body, Osmosis "Ozzy" Jones (Chris Rock), a rebellious and disgraced white blood cell officer of the Frank PD, recklessly chases germs from the egg, but fails and instead causes Frank to have a leg cramp. Meanwhile, facing a challenge to his re-election prospects, Mayor Phlegmming (William Shatner) doubles down on Franks consumption of junk-food, despite concerns from his secretary Leah Estrogen (Brandy). Meanwhile, Thrax (Laurence Fishburne), a deadly virus, emerges from the leftover egg and causes inflammation in the throat. Unwilling to admit responsibility for the recent symptoms, Phlegmming instructs Frank to take a cold pill through brain signals. The suppressant, Drixenol "Drix" Koldreliff (David Hyde Pierce), is partnered with Ozzy to investigate the recent sore throat. While Drix cools off the inflammation, Ozzy gets a short eyewitness testimony from a terrified bacterium who saw Thrax arrive. Thrax assumes leadership of a gang of sweat germs and launches an attack on the mucus dam in Franks nose, causing a runny nose, nearly expelling Ozzy and Drix before Frank inhales them back into the sinuses. While continuing the investigation, Ozzy reveals to Drix that a couple of years ago, during a science fair at Shanes school, he caused Frank to publicly vomit on Shanes science and P.E. teacher, Mrs. Boyd (Molly Shannon), after seeing a deadly virus on an oyster Frank ate earlier after observing another students oyster display; it came on the newspaper the next day; overnight Frank, Shane, Mrs. Boyd and their whole families became the town laughing stock everywhere they went, causing them to be humiliated, and Frank got fired from his job at the pea soup factory by the manager and supervisor. His brother and Shanes uncle Bob (Chris Elliot) later helped him get a job at the zoo, where Frank still gets zero respect. Ozzy, in turn, was then suspended from his job working in the kidneys and then demoted to patrol duty in the mouth for use of unnecessary force. Drix assures Ozzy that he did the right thing as raw oysters are frequently breeding grounds for malicious bacteria. Based on information from a vaccine virus, Ozzy goes undercover at a nightclub located within a zit on Franks forehead, intending to infiltrate Thraxs gang. Once there, Ozzy discovers Thraxs plan to steal chromosomes from the hypothalamus, driving up Franks body temperature to kill him in 48 hours. However, Ozzys cover is blown and is forced to call in Drix, who destroys the club with a grenade. The explosion bursts the zit during Franks meeting with Mrs. Boyd, causing it to land on her lip, grossing her out, and she screams at him to leave. In response, Phlegmming closes the investigation, fires Ozzy, and orders Drix to leave the city. Having survived the assault, Thrax discreetly breaks into the hypothalamus gland and steals a DNA bead from a chromosome. Franks temperature begins to rise. Ozzy, realizing that Thrax was still a threat, stops Drix from leaving and convinces him to help him finish the case. Thrax then kidnaps Leah and flees to the mouth to escape. As Frank is taken to the hospital in a fever induced coma, Ozzy and Drix give chase and save Leah but Thrax escapes by using pollen, causing Frank to sneeze and expelling Thrax from his body. With Drixs help, Ozzy pursues Thrax to the surface of Shanes right eye and her false eyelash. Thrax pins Ozzy down and threatens to kill Shane next, but gets stuck in the eyelash; Ozzys pliable body allows him to escape as the eyelash slides off and lands in a glass of alcohol, dissolving Thrax. As Franks temperature reaches 108 degrees, his heartbeat flatlines as he suffers hyperpyrexia, leaving Shane devastated. Riding on one of Shanes tears, Ozzy reenters Franks body with Thraxs necklace of DNA beads, reviving Frank just in time. Having narrowly cheated death, Frank commits himself to living a healthier lifestyle with the help of Shane, while Ozzy begins a relationship with Leah and is re-instated to the force with Drix as his new partner. Phlegmming loses his position as mayor and is reduced to working as a custodian in the bowels. He later accidentally ejects himself from the body by pushing a button that triggers Franks flatulence.
Osmosis Jones
2001