Debbie Galardi recalls playing Ouija with her best friend Laine Morris as children. In present day, Debbie throws her Ouija board into the fire, burning it. Debbie implies to Laine that something strange happened with the Ouija board. After Laine leaves, the Ouija board reappears in Debbies bedroom. Debbie becomes possessed and hangs herself. Laine attends Debbies wake with her boyfriend Trevor, younger sister Sarah, friend Isabelle, and Debbies boyfriend Pete. The five friends meet at Debbies house and use her Ouija board to try communicating with her. Strange things happen, and a presence smashes Petes hand into a mirror. Later, the friends start finding the phrase "hi friend" (a message communicated during the Ouija board session) written in different places, like Isabelles car window, a tunnel wall, Petes desk, and Laines computer. Thinking Deb is trying to communicate with them, the group has another Ouija session. They then discover that they are actually in contact not with Debbie but with a spirit calling itself "DZ." Laine sees the image of a little girl with her mouth sewn shut. The girl warns them to run because her mother is coming. Laine sees an old woman, and everyone flees. Laine later learns that Deb found the Ouija board in her attic and played alone. Isabelle is possessed and killed by being smashed into her bathroom sink and cracking her skull open. Laine and Pete search Debs attic and find a box of old photographs that belonged to the previous residents. While researching the previous familys history, they learn of a little girl named Doris Zander who went missing, and whose mother was suspected in her disappearance. Laine visits Doriss sister, an old woman named Paulina, who is now committed to a psychiatric hospital. Paulina explains that her mother was a medium and used Doris as a vessel for the dead to speak through. Their mother went mad and sewed Doriss mouth shut before killing her. She tells Laine that there is a secret room in the house where Laine must find Doriss hidden body and unstitch her mouth in order for the girl to banish their mother. The remaining friends go back to the Galardi house, where Laine finds Doriss corpse and cuts the stitches on her mouth. Doriss spirit appears and chases away the ghost of her mother. Pete becomes possessed and is killed in his home, appearing as a soulless ghost with his mouth stitched up. Laine revisits Paulina and realizes that the old woman intentionally lied. Doris was the evil entity all along and her mother was trying to stop the friends from summoning her. The Morriss grandmother, Nona, advises the sisters to destroy Doriss body and the Ouija board at the same time. Doriss ghost throws Trevor into a swimming pool covered with a plastic canopy, trapping and drowning him. Laine and Sarah return to the Galardi house cellar, where Doris captures Sarah and prepares to sew her mouth shut. Laine plays the Ouija board alone to draw the spirits attention. Doris starts possessing Laine, but Debs ghost appears to help Laine defeat Doris. Sarah throws Doriss body into the furnace, and Laine throws the Ouija board. The paranormal activity stops. Later, Laine finds that the planchette has mysteriously appeared back at her home in her bedroom, and as she sees through the planchette the film ends.
Ouija (2014 film)
2014