In 1967 Los Angeles, a widow named Alice Zander works out of her suburban home as a spiritual medium, accompanied by her daughters, 15-year-old Paulina "Lina" and 9-year old Doris. The family is still reeling over the recent death of Roger, Alices husband and the kids father. At Linas suggestion Alice incorporates a Ouija board into her readings. While trying out the board, she unknowingly contacts a spirit named Marcus that begins to possess Doris. Alice receives a notice that the bank intends to foreclose on their home. Doris contacts the board for help, believing she is communicating with her dead father. The spirit leads her to a secret compartment behind the basement wall containing a pouch of cash. When she gives the money to her mother, the family has a Ouija session, believing they can contact Roger. When the board answers a question only Roger would know the answer to, a thrilled Alice begins believing that they are in contact with her dead husband. Soon, Doris becomes possessed by a shadowy spirit. Lina, who is becoming disturbed by the changes in her sister, finds papers written by Doris in fluent Polish, a language she does not know, and brings them to Father Tom to translate. Troubled, Father Tom visits them for a Ouija session under the pretense of contacting his dead wife Gloria. Although the session appears to be successful, Father Tom later explains to Alice and Lina that Doris did not contact Gloria. Instead, for every question he asked, she read his thoughts and repeated the answers he was thinking in his mind. He reveals that the pages are entries written by a Polish immigrant named Marcus, who was taken captive during World War II by a sadistic doctor who conducted experiments on him and other captives inside the houses basement. These spirits knew answers that only Roger would know because they have been watching the family since the day they moved in. Meanwhile, Doris kills Linas boyfriend Mikey. When they find the body, Father Tom, Alice, and Lina burn the Ouija board in the furnace. Father Tom finds the secret room where the experiments were conducted, and is possessed by the spirits. He attacks Alice and Lina, but momentarily seizes clarity, only to be killed by Doris. Alice is captured, while Rogers spirit carries an unconscious Lina to her bed. Recalling an earlier moment when her dolls mouth was stitched by her fathers spirit "to shut out the voices", she realizes she must sew Doris mouth shut to quiet the spirits voices and stop the evil. She fights off the embodied evil spirits to do so but kills Doris in the process, reuniting with her father. The spirits possess Lina and stab Alice. As she dies, Alice sees Roger and Doris together. Lina is committed in a mental hospital for the suspected murder of her mother. She tells her doctor that she knows she will never be alone again. Later, Lina summons Doriss evil spirit with a make-shift Ouija board. In a post-credits scene, 47 years later, a now elderly and still institutionalized Lina receives a visit from someone claiming to be her niece.
Ouija: Origin of Evil
2016