Cowboys Tim Holt and Chito Rafferty are looking for work when they help Terry Muldoon, who works for her fathers Arizona telegraph operation, down from a telegraph pole. She suggests she try Colonel Marvin at nearby Fort Craig. Marvin has just been ordered to shut down the fort because the telegraph has rendered it obsolete. This upsets Paul Manning, who has been supplying the fort with equipment and horses, and is about to go broke as a result. This will mean he cannot marry his sweetheart, singer Stella. Pauls best friend, saloon owner Brad Roberts, tells Paul to go ahead with the wedding. Tim and Chito ride to Terrys camp just as three masked men are destroying the camp and telegraph wires. Tim shoots and wounds one of the men, Steve, before all three flee on horseback. They follow them to nearby Mesa City, where Steve and his associate, Bellow, have gone to Brad for help. Brad shoots Steve dead and claims he shot himself. Tim and Chito are suspicious of Brad but have no hard evidence against him. Terry accuses Paul of sabotaging the camp and hires Tim and Chito as guards on a stage coach carrying a $10,000 payroll. Paul pays off Bellew in Brads office, happy that the sabotage has earned him $50,000 in delays. After Paul leaves, Brad, hires Bellew to steal the Muldoos payroll, knowing that Paul will be suspected. Bellew and his associate, Joe, hold up the stage, which is transporting Stella and Terrys father, Muldoon. They grab Muldoons bag and Stellas purse, and shoot Muldoon, just before Tim and Chito arrive to chase them off. Chito takes Paul to jail to await the sheriff. Muldoon dies of his wounds and Terry organises a lynching party for Paul. Paul tells Terry and Chito he was behind to sabotage but refuses to implicate Brad. Tim convinces Paul to ride to Crockerville, where he and Stella are to be married in a few days. This conversation is overheard by Bellew who tells Brad, who orders that Paul be killed. As Tim and Paul ride to Crockerville, Bellew and Joe open fire. Paul is wounded but Tim captures Joe. Paul guides Tim to Brads nearby ranch home to recuperate. Bellew tells Brad what happened and he orders Bellew to round up some men to find him. At Brads house, Tim finds Stellas stolen purse, and Paul reveals Brads part in the sabotage. Paul realises that Brad is trying to frame him because he is in love with Stella. Chito identifies Joes horse as one he saw outside the doctors office. He ties up Joe and tells Tim. Joe is freed by Brad and Bellew who head for Brads house. Chito sees this and rides to Terrys camp for help. At Brads house, Tim and Paul shoot it out with Brads gang. Bellew sets the house on fire, but Tim and Paul put it out. Chito arrives with Terry as Tim shoots and captures Brad. Paul and Stella get married.
Overland Telegraph (film)
1951