In 1905 Kansas, Oscar Diggs works as a magician in a traveling circus. As a storm approaches, the circus strongman learns Oscar has flirted with his wife and threatens him. Oscar escapes in a hot air balloon, but is sucked into a tornado that takes him to the Land of Oz. There he encounters the beautiful yet naïve witch Theodora, who believes him to be a wizard prophesied to become King of Oz by destroying the Wicked Witch who killed the previous king; the idea of being an immensely wealthy monarch makes Oscar immediately accept. En route to the Emerald City, Theodora falls in love with Oscar, though he does not reciprocate her feelings. They encounter the flying monkey Finley, who pledges a life debt to Oscar when he saves him from a lion. Oscar reveals his deception to Finley, forcing him to maintain the lie that he is a wizard. At the Emerald City, Oscar meets Theodoras beautiful older sister, Evanora, who tells him that the Wicked Witch resides in the Dark Forest and can be killed by destroying her wand. Oscar and Finley are joined en route to the forest by China Girl, a young, living china doll whose village and family were destroyed by the Wicked Witch. The three reach the forest and, upon retrieving the wand, discover the "Wicked Witch" is Glinda the Good Witch, who identifies herself as the late kings daughter and Evanora as the true Wicked Witch. Evanora sees this with her crystal ball and tricks Theodora into thinking he is trying to court all three witches at once. She offers Theodora a magic green apple she says will remove her heartache. Theodora bites it and turns into a hideous green-skinned witch. Glinda brings Oscars group to her domain to escape Evanoras army of Winkies and flying baboons. She confides in Oscar that she knows he is not a wizard, but still believes he can help stop Evanora. He reluctantly takes charge of an "army" of Quadlings, Tinkers, and Munchkins. Theodora enters Glindas domain and angrily reveals her new, hideous appearance to Oscar before threatening to kill him and his allies with the Emerald Citys well-prepared army. Oscar despairs at his chances of victory, but after telling China Girl about the exploits of his hero Thomas Edison, he conceives a plan that relies on trickery and makes preparations with Glinda and his group. Glinda and her subjects mount a fake attack on the Emerald City using a pulley-rig army of scarecrow puppets hidden by thick fog. The witches are tricked into sending their flying baboons through a poppy field that puts them to sleep. However, two baboons manage to capture Glinda, who is brought to the city square and chained. Meanwhile, Oscar infiltrates the Emerald City with his allies, but appears to abandon them in a hot air balloon loaded with gold, which Theodora destroys with a fireball. As the wicked sisters prepare to execute Glinda, Oscar appears before his friends, having faked his betrayal and death. Using a hidden smoke machine and image projector, he presents a giant image of his face as his "true" form, and a fireworks display to intimidate the Wicked Witches. Evanora fearfully hides in her castle while Theodora flees on her broom, unable to hurt the "invincible" wizard; Oscar calls to Theodora, offering that she would be welcome to return should she overcome her wickedness, which is met with defiance from Theodora, who flies away to the West, leaving Oscar saddened. China Girl frees Glinda, who engages Evanora in a magical duel. During the fight, Glinda destroys Evanoras emerald necklace, revealing her to be an old hag, and banishes her. Evanora is carried away by the two remaining flying baboons as she vows revenge. Oscar, now ruler of Oz, uses his projector to sustain the belief that he is a powerful wizard. He also presents gifts to his friends: Master Tinker, who helped build his machines, receives Oscars camping-tool jackknife; Knuck, the grumpy Munchkin herald, receives a mask with a smiley face; the long-suffering Finley receives Oscars friendship along with his top hat; and China Girl accepts her friends as her new family. Finally, Oscar takes Glinda behind the curtains of his projector, thanking her for making him a better person, and they kiss.
Oz the Great and Powerful
2013