Country girl Loretta Dalrymple (Marion Davies) arrives in New York City and gets a job as a chambermaid in a luxurious hotel, the same hotel in which con man "Click" Wiley (Pat OBrien) and his photographer partner Ed Olsen (Frank McHugh) are three weeks in arrears. Desperate to avoid being evicted by the assistant manager, Mr. Yates (Berton Churchill), Click has Ed make a composite photograph by combining the best features of several renowned Hollywood beauties and enters the resulting fake under the name "Dawn Glory" in a nationwide beauty contest for the $2500 prize. Dawn Glory wins. Bingo Nelson (Dick Powell), a pilot famous for performing crazy stunts, immediately falls in love when he spots the photograph in his friend Clicks suite. After heroically flying to Alaska through a blizzard to deliver serum for some sick children, he proposes to Dawn Glory on national radio. As a result, reporters clamor to interview the woman, putting Click in a tough spot. Slattery (Lyle Talbot) of the Express is particularly persistent, digging up Clicks checkered past to try to blackmail him into giving him an exclusive interview. Finally, Click is about to admit the truth when Eds girlfriend Gladys Russell (Mary Astor) discovers Loretta trying on a dress delivered for Miss Glory. Earlier in the day, Loretta had splurged and gotten her hair styled as in the photograph. Gladys and Ed pass off Loretta as Dawn. Soon, advertising endorsements and royalties make Click and Ed a lot of money. Simeon Hamburgher (Al Shean), president of Nemo Yeast, the beauty contests sponsor, hires Bingo to fly over the city and tout Miss Glorys endorsement of his product over a loudspeaker. His bitter rival, J. Horace Freischutz (Joseph Cawthorn), orders his assistant Joe Bonner (Hobart Cavanaugh) to arrange a meeting somehow with Dawn, so he can try to persuade her to sign with him. Bonner pays thugs Petey (Allen Jenkins) and Blackie (Barton MacLane) to kidnap her. After Petey learns that Dawn is really an impostor, he and his partner decide to blackmail Click instead. Click agrees to pay them off if they will kidnap Bingo, a persistent nuisance who keeps trying to talk to Dawn. Gladys, jealous of a possible rival for Eds affections, suggests they take Dawn instead. Petey is dazzled by Dawns beauty, so he does. However, Bingo tracks them down and rescues her. She agrees to marry him and announces it to everyone from the skies over New York.
Page Miss Glory (1935 film)
1935