Recently divorced Meg Altman, and her eleven-year old daughter, Sarah, move into a four-story brownstone on the Upper West Side of New York City. The houses previous owner, a reclusive millionaire, installed a "panic room" to protect the houses occupants from intruders. The room is protected by concrete and steel on all sides, a thick steel door, and an extensive security system with multiple surveillance cameras, a public announcement system, and a separate phone line. On the night the two move into the home, it is broken into by Junior, the previous owners grandson; Burnham, an employee of the residences security company; and Raoul, a gunman recruited by Junior. The three intruders are after $3 million in bearer bonds, which are locked inside a floor safe in the panic room. Discovering that the Altmans have moved in earlier than expected, Junior convinces a reluctant Burnham, who had assumed the house was unoccupied until he had noticed a glowing night light, to continue with their heist. As they begin the robbery, Meg wakes up and happens to see the intruders on the video monitors in the panic room. Before the three can reach them, Meg and Sarah run into the panic room and lock the door. They are unable to use the dedicated phone in the room, which was never hooked up by Meg. Intending to force the two out of the room, Burnham introduces propane gas into the rooms air vents. Raoul, in conflict with Burnham and Junior, dangerously increases the amount of gas. Unable to seal the vents, Meg ignites the gas, while she and Sarah cover themselves with fireproof blankets, causing an explosion which vents into the room outside and causes a fire, injuring Junior. The Altmans make several attempts to call for help, including signaling a neighbor with a flashlight through the opening of a ventilation pipe, but the neighbor ignores it. Meg then taps into the main telephone line and gets through to her ex-husband Stephen, before the burglars cut them off. All attempts to get into the room fail. Junior lets slip that there is much more money in the safe than he let on, and gives up on the robbery. About to leave the house, he is shot dead by Raoul, who then forces Burnham, at gunpoint, to finish the robbery. Stephen arrives at the home and is taken hostage by Burnham and Raoul—who severely beats him. Sarah, who has diabetes, suffers a seizure. Her emergency glucagon syringe is in a refrigerator outside the panic room. Raoul dons an unconscious Stephen’s trench coat to trick Meg into momentarily leaving the panic room. Burnham enters and finds Sarah motionless on the floor. After retrieving the glucagon syringe, Meg struggles briefly with Raoul, who is thrown into the panic room, his gun knocked out of his hand. As Meg throws the syringe into the panic room, Burnham frantically locks himself, Raoul, and Sarah inside, crushing Raouls hand in the sliding steel door. Meg, who now has the gun, begs the two intruders over the PA system to give Sarah the injection. Burnham, who has shown no interest in hurting either Meg or Sarah, injects Sarah. While doing so, he tells Sarah he did not want this, and the only reason he agreed to participate was to give his own child a better life. Sarah thanks him for the injection and he tells Meg that Sarah is now alright. Having earlier received a call from Stephen, two policemen arrive, which prompts Raoul to threaten Sarahs life. Knowing the danger to her daughter, Meg lies to the officers and they leave. Burnham opens the safe and finds $22 million in bearer bonds inside. As the robbers attempt to leave, using Sarah as a hostage, Meg hits Raoul with a sledgehammer and Burnham flees. After a badly injured Stephen shoots at Raoul and misses, Raoul disables him and prepares to kill Meg with the sledgehammer, but Burnham, hearing Sarahs screams of pain, returns to the house and shoots Raoul dead, saying, "Youll be okay now,” to Meg and her daughter before leaving. The police, alerted by Megs suspicious behavior earlier, arrive in force and capture Burnham, who lets the bearer bonds go and they fly away with the wind. Later, Meg and Sarah, having recovered from their harrowing experience, begin searching the newspaper for a new home.
Panic Room (film)
2002