Rising movie star Bo Laramie (Cole Hauser) has finally achieved major success with his latest film. A persistent group of unscrupulous photographers — Kevin Rosner (Kevin Gage), Leonard Clark (Tom Hollander), Wendell Stokes (Daniel Baldwin) and their leader Rex Harper (Tom Sizemore) - harass Bo and his wife Abby (Robin Tunney), and their 8-year-old son Zach (Blake Michael Bryan). When Bo takes Zach to soccer practice, he sees Rex taking photos of Zach and confronts him, where Rex provokes Bo into punching him, caught on camera by his fellow photographers. Bo is sued for $500,000 and placed into anger management, while Rex vows to destroy Bos life. As Bo, Abby and Zach return from an event, Rex and his crew drive up beside them, in four different vehicles, and blind them by taking pictures. Bos car is hit by a pickup truck, and Rex and his crew snap photos of the wreck they caused. While Bo is not seriously injured, Abbys spleen is removed and Zach is placed in a coma. Bo is told by LAPD detective Burton (Dennis Farina) that the paparazzi each gave him the same story of finding the wreck after it happened, with no witnesses to dispute their claims. Some time later, Bo accidentally causes Kevin to wipe out on his motorcycle, careening onto a precipice. Bo tries to save him, but when Kevin gloats that theyll put his family through hell, Bo lets him fall to his death. Bo next goes after Leonard, secretly placing a prop gun in the jacket left in Leonards car, whilst Leonard invades Bos movie set and is ejected by security. Following him, Bo calls 911, and describes Leonards car, saying that the driver is waving a gun. Leonard is pulled over and, reaching into his jacket for his ID, instead pulls out the prop gun, causing the cops to shoot him dead. Convinced Bo will target them next, Rex and Wendell break into Bos house to plant cameras inside. Abby runs into Wendell, who assaults her and threatens to kill Zach if she tells the cops. Burton assigns Deputy Walker (Forry Smith) and Deputy Wilson (Donal Gibson) to provide extra security, but Bo sneaks out past the two deputies and into Wendells house, discovering the feed from the cameras. Wendell arrives home, and Bo confronts him with a baseball bat. In the morning, Bo puts the car back where it was at, and races to beat Burton, on his way to the house. Burton shows Bo a video taken by a camera in a button of Leonards shirt on the movie set, and thinks someone planted the gun in Leonards coat. Rex finds Wendell beaten to death, and Bo planted the bat in Rexs houseboat to frame him. Burton realizes traffic camera footage will prove what really happened at Bos crash, along with the testimony of Emily (Andrea Baker), who was with Rex at the event, prompted by her guilt to come forward. At Wendells house, Burton notices the video feed from the cameras in Bos house and Rex entering with a gun. Rex goes to Bo and Abbys bedroom and opens fire, only for Bo to hit Rex and throw him to the floor. He viciously beats Rex, gloating about how he got his revenge. Rex is arrested and relentlessly photographed by paparazzi as he is led away. Later, as Bo is finishing filming, hes called to the hospital, where Zach has awakened from his coma. Bo, Abby, and Zach attend at the premiere of Bos latest film, and Abby is now pregnant with a girl. After the film, Bo meets the press out front, taking a paparazzis jibe at him in his stride.
Paparazzi (2004 film)
2004