On October 9, 2006, Kristi Rey and her husband Daniel are killed by her demon-possessed sister Katie, who then abducts Kristis one-year-old son, Hunter. Text states that Katie and Hunters whereabouts remained unknown. Five years later, in November 2011, Alex Nelson lives in a wealthy suburb of Henderson, Nevada with her father Doug, mother Holly, and little brother Wyatt. When their new neighbor falls ill and is taken to the hospital, her son, Robbie, is left in the care of the family. One night while Alex is sleeping, her boyfriend Bens computer starts recording her laptop webcam, and he sees Robbie getting into the bed with her. The next day, Wyatt tells Alex about Robbies friend, Toby. After strange events happen, Alex and Ben set up cameras all over the house. On the third night, the strange happenings escalate until one day, Alex finds a trail of toys that leads to a closet. She finds Robbie, who says, "He doesnt like you watching us," as a chandelier falls and almost kills her. On the sixth night, Alex sees many cars parked outside Robbies house, and goes to check it out, but runs back home after being caught by a strange woman in a black gown. The next day, Wyatt has an encounter with an invisible force. Wyatt later reveals a green symbol on his back to Alex and Ben and tells them, "I had to meet him." Alex and Ben learn the symbol is from a witches coven, one that would unleash a demon to possess a young boy. They learn that to complete the possession ritual, Wyatt would need to spill the blood of a virgin - Alex is revealed to be a virgin. The next day, the boys go to Robbies house. Alex follows them; Katie (from the original film), presumably Robbies mother, has returned from the hospital. Wyatt explains to Alex that Katie knew he and Robbie were both adopted and that Wyatts real name is "Hunter". Katie told Wyatt his old family wants him back. On the ninth night, Doug hears a creak in the kitchen. He investigates and starts believing Alex when a kitchen knife falls right in between him and the camera. The next night, Wyatt argues with Toby about his real name. While Wyatt is taking a bath, he gets pulled underwater by Toby. When he rises, he appears to be in a trance. That night, while Alex is asleep, Wyatt makes the blanket fly off the bed and levitates her in mid-air. On the twelfth night, a possessed Katie is seen sneaking around. Alex hears the garage door open, so she goes to close it. It opens again and the door crashes down, almost killing her. Katie enters the house and goes to Wyatts room, where she tells him that shell wait until he is "ready". The familys car turns on by itself and begins spewing exhaust. Alex escapes the garage and attempts to show her parents the footage of this incident, but the footage has been mysteriously erased. Her parents think shes gone crazy. The next night, Doug and Alex go to dinner to talk about the strange events that had been occurring. While they are gone, Holly is violently thrown against the ceiling, dying upon impact. Katie drags her body away. Ben comes over to meet Alex, but no one is home. He attempts to leave a message on Alexs laptop but Katie appears and kills Ben by snapping his neck. Alex and Doug arrive home and Doug goes next door, believing he saw Holly and Wyatt. Alex finds Bens body and is suddenly knocked down by a force, presumably Toby. She flees to Katies home and finds Doug being dragged out of sight. She searches for him when she hears Wyatts voice. Suddenly, Katie runs towards the camera, shrieking demonically. Alex escapes from Katie by jumping through a window and finds Wyatt in the yard. Wyatt looks behind Alex and she sees dozens of witches running towards her. As she turns around, Katie lunges at her. The camera falls to the ground and the screen cuts to black.
Paranormal Activity 4
2014