On his way to see Wild Man Moore (Louis Armstrong) at the train station, Ram Bowen (Paul Newman), a jazz musician, encounters Connie Lampson, (Diahann Carroll), a newly arrived tourist, and invites her to see him perform that night at Club 33. Connie isnt interested but her friend, Lillian (Joanne Woodward) insists they go to see him. After Ram finishes performing with his friend Eddie (Sidney Poitier), he offers to take both women to breakfast. When Ram suggests that he and Connie go off and have a private breakfast together she is offended, and Ram is angered at being rejected. However Lillian, undeterred that Ram prefers her friend, pursues him and the two sleep together while Connie and Eddie spend the night walking around Paris. Over the following weeks the couples grow closer. However Connie is angry that Eddie has abandoned America for France, insisting that the only way things can improve in the U.S. is if people stay and work together in order to change things, while Eddie is content to stay in Paris where there is less racism and he is able to carve out a career as a talented musician. As Connie and Lillians trip nears its end Lillian tries to convince Ram to enter into a more committed relationship and move back with her. Ram, aware that she has two children and lives in a small town, breaks off their relationship telling her he is dedicated to his music. Meanwhile, Eddie and Connie declare their love for one another, and plan to get married. Shortly after, they argue when Connie asks him to try living in America for a year and he refuses. Their hearts broken by their respective lovers, Connie and Lillian make plans to return home early. Before the women can leave, Ram attends a meeting with a record producer, Bernard, who dismisses a composition he has been working on as too "light." Bernard encourages Ram to take some time to study music, but Rams hopes of being a serious musician have been dashed. Heartbroken, he tracks down Lillian, and agrees to move back with her. Connie, in a desperate last attempt to reach out to Eddie, follows him to a party where she tells him she is leaving for good. Unwilling to lose her, Eddie makes up his mind to return to America with her, but will follow in a few weeks. At the train station, Ram is late and finally appears to tell Lillian that he has to stay in Paris, and is unwilling to give up on his music. Lillian and Connie depart on the train, and the two men head off together. As they leave, workers are re-papering a bill board, covering the advertisement of Louis Armstrong (Wild Man Moore) with an offer for Larousse.
Paris Blues
1961