Tom is being scolded by Mammy-Two-Shoes in the kitchen warning him to keep the mouse out of the fridge or he gets thrown out. She hands Tom her broom at the beginning of the cartoon. "...And this, Mister Thomas, is your last and final chance! Either you keep that mouse out of this icebox, or you goes out! Understand?!" "Remember you is on guard". As she leaves, Tom holding the broom, marches around the kitchen alert. However, Jerry opens up a grille on the floor, exposing a hole, and directs Tom into it. Tom gives chase, but he trips over some empty milk bottles Jerry had moments before rolling into his path. Speeding out of control, Tom falls into a barrel of cider in the basement, and he drinks the cider. Completely drunk, he befriends Jerry and makes his way back to the kitchen, drunkenly sharing the food with his new friend, making a mess in the process. When he pulls a tray of food from the fridge, it collapses on him with a crash. This wakes up Two Shoes, who comes downstairs to investigate what is going on. Jerry hides the drunken Tom, covering his mouth so that his hiccups are not heard. Two Shoes enters to discover the kitchen in shambles—"Well slap my face if this aint a mess! Hmm!", and badmouths the cat who she believes has gone AWOL. As Two Shoes leaves the room, vowing to mop the floor with Toms hide come morning, Tom emerges from his hiding place, but he trips up over some of the spilled food and crashes into the refrigerator where he is squirted with some seltzer water, sobering him up again. Jerry, holding a chicken drumstick, approaches Tom, unaware that he is now sober and very angry. Tom chases after Jerry towards the bathroom, but slips on a bath mat and crashes into a wall. A bottle of bay rum (a kind of lotion, not alcohol) falls from the bathroom shelf and into Toms mouth, causing Tom to become drunk again. Tom takes Jerry into the dining room for dinner and rings the bell, expecting service for them both. But Two Shoes is upstairs, fast asleep and doesnt hear. The drunken cat grows impatient, and despite Jerrys objections, goes upstairs to get her. He takes a pitcher of water, recites, "One for the money, (hic), two for the show, (hic), three to make ready, (hic), and four to go!" while Jerry watches with complete horror on his face, and Tom douses her with it. Mammy Two Shoes screams angrily, hurls some furniture at Tom and then chases him leaping downstairs with a resounding crash, wrecking the house in the process. Jerry goes down the stairs and proceeds to watch the fiasco of Tom being chased into the night by Mammy Two Shoes with her missing every time as Tom is lifted by his drunken hiccups.
Part Time Pal
1947