Michael Lanyard (Warren William), the Lone Wolf, agrees to go to Alexandria to help the Allied cause during World War II. There, he and his valet, Llewellyn Jamison (Eric Blore), are met by his old friend, nightclub owner Johnny Booth (Sheldon Leonard). Fritz (Lloyd Bridges) comes to drive him, supposedly to see Sir Robert Wembley (Frederick Worlock), head of the British secret service in the region. However, he is actually taken to meet Karl (Gavin Muir), the leader of a Nazi spy ring. Karl threatens to kill Jamison (whom he has kidnapped) unless Lanyard does some as yet unspecified work for him. When Lanyard reluctantly agrees, the two men are released. After they leave, Karl reveals to Fritz that he expects the Lone Wolf to try to trap him, but that is all part of his plan. When Lanyard meets with Wembley, the spymaster makes clear that he does not want an amateurs help, but reluctantly agrees to let the Lone Wolf play along in order to gather more information. Complicating matters further, Lanyard and Jamison encounter the latters son Donald (Robert Stanford), a British naval officer, and his fiancée, reporter Valerie King (Ann Savage) in Booths nightclub. Lanyard soon suspects that she is not all she appears to be. In Booths private office, he also meets freelance spies or informers (more or less on friendly terms with Booth), who call themselves "Rembrandt" (Louis Merrill) and "Cezanne" (Jay Novello). Cézanne shows him that the lace King was knitting contains a secret message. When the two spies leave, Rembrandt shoots Cézanne; he dies in front of the nightclub, at Kings feet. When King returns to her hotel room, Karl is waiting for her. She is one of his agents, currently extracting information from Donald for their real goal: the plans for the minefields and defences of the Suez Canal. Meanwhile, the Lone Wolf is approached by "Whistler" (Sig Arno), yet another unscrupulous man with information to sell. Whistler sells him lace that King had sent to a laundry; the hidden message indicates that whatever the Nazis plan to do is to be finished by midnight. Karl visits Lanyard and gives him his assignment: break into a safe at British Intelligence and steal some documents. However, it eventually becomes clear to all that Lanyards part is merely a distraction. The plans have already been stolen. Wembley orders the arrest of the Lone Wolf for treason, but Lanyard escapes. He and Jamison head for the laundry. Along the way, they come upon the unconscious Donald. They revive him and take him along. Inside, they find secret rooms and overpower Karl. They also discover the body of Whistler and a clue, shards of a distinctive watch crystal, just like the one King has, microfilming equipment, and ashes of the defence plans. Lanyard deduces that the plans have been transferred to Kings watch. When she telephones, Lanyard pretends to be Karl and learns that she is at the hotel. Before they get there, however, Rembrandt kills her and takes the watch to Karl. Fortunately, Booth has an aircraft armed with machine guns. Lanyard pilots it, finds the speeding car taking Karl and Rembrandt to the submarine, and guns them both down.
Passport to Suez
1943