In 1942, journalist Manning (John Loder) arrives at an English air base to learn about the Free French who are fighting the Germans. Along with Captain Freycinet (Claude Rains), he watches as French bomber crews prepare for a raid. Mannings interest focuses on Jean Matrac (Humphrey Bogart), a gunner, and Freycinet describes Matracs story: Two years earlier, just before the defeat of France by the Germans, five convicts who escaped from Devils Island are found adrift in a small canoe in the Caribbean Sea by the tramp steamer Ville de Nancy. These five men, Marius (Peter Lorre), Garou (Helmut Dantine), Petit (George Tobias), Renault (Philip Dorn), and their leader, Matrac, are rescued and taken aboard the French freighter commanded by Captain Malo (Victor Francen). Later, when confronted by Captain Freycinet, the five confess to being escaped convicts from the French prison colony at Cayenne in French Guiana. They had been recruited by Grandpère (Vladimir Sokoloff), a fervently patriotic ex-convict, to fight for France in her hour of need. To Grandpére, the inmates had recounted Matracs troubles in pre-war France to convince the old man to choose Matrac to lead the escape. A crusading newspaper publisher, Matrac, being opposed to the Munich Pact, had been framed for murder to shut him up. By the time the Ville de Nancy nears the port of Marseille, France has surrendered to Nazi Germany, and a collaborationist Vichy government has been set up. Upon hearing the news, the captain secretly decides not to deliver his valuable cargo to the Germans. Pro-Vichy passenger Major Duval (Sydney Greenstreet) organizes an attempt to seize control of the ship, but is defeated, in great part due to the escapees. When they reach England, the convicts join the Free French bomber squadron. As Freycinet finishes his tale, the squadron returns from its mission over France. Renaults bomber is delayed, as Matrac is allowed to drop a letter over his familys house before returning from each mission. His wife Paula (Michèle Morgan) and their son, whom he has never seen, live in occupied France. Renaults bomber finally lands. It has been badly shot up, and Matrac has been killed. After the squadron bury him, Freycinet reads Matracs letter to his son that had been unable to be delivered.
Passage to Marseille
1944