Graeme Willy and Clive Gollings are British comic book enthusiasts and best friends who travel to the United States to attend the annual San Diego Comic-Con International, and to take a road trip through the American Southwest to visit sites significant to UFO lore. While driving on a remote desert highway at night, after a tense situation with some rednecks in a diner, Graeme and Clive observe a car driving erratically and then crashing. They stop to investigate and offer assistance to the driver, who turns out to be an alien named Paul. Clive faints, but Graeme agrees to assist Paul and gives him a ride. Later, Special Agent Zoil of the US Secret Service arrives at the car-crash site and informs his unseen female superior, "the Big Guy", that he is closing in on Paul. She sends two inept rookies, Haggard and OReilly, to assist Zoil. Graeme, Clive, and Paul camp at an RV park run by two Christian fundamentalists, one-eyed Ruth Buggs and her father, Moses. The next day, when Ruth discovers Paul, the three are forced to take her with them. During an argument, Paul convinces Ruth to question her beliefs. Paul later uses his healing power to cure Ruths blinded eye. The fugitives stop at a bar and Ruth tries to call Moses, but Zoil intercepts the call. She is accosted by the rednecks from the diner, and a bar fight ensues. The group escapes when Paul terrifies the rednecks into fainting. Later, at another RV park, Ruth is questioned by Agent Zoil, but claims to know nothing about "a one-eyed girl" or "two British nerds". Released, Graeme and she retrieve Clive and Paul, who narrowly escape Haggard and OReilly. Frustrated, Zoil orders Haggard and OReilly to return to base, but they go behind his back and insist on catching the alien on their own. The group soon arrives at a house owned by Tara, who rescued Paul when he crashed on Earth 60 years ago and accidentally killed her dog (Who Paul was named after) in the crash, and as a result of no one believing her story, has spent her life as a pariah. As she makes tea for her visitors, Haggard, OReilly, and Zoil surround the house. The fugitives flee, but OReilly shoots at them, igniting gas from Taras stove and destroying her house. OReilly is apparently killed in the explosion. Haggard pursues and catches up to the RV. Due to an error in judgement, Haggard drives off a cliff and is killed. Zoil reassures the Big Guy that he will have Paul within the hour, but she is tired of waiting and informs Zoil that she has ordered a "military response". Paul, Graeme, Clive, Ruth, and Tara arrive at Devils Tower National Monument, where they set off fireworks as a signal to Pauls mothership. A helicopter suddenly arrives with agents and the Big Guy. Zoil then appears and initiates a stand-off, disabling the agents, but is then wounded by the Big Guy. Secretly, Zoil is Pauls friend and was attempting to aid his escape under the guise of capturing the alien. The group fights the Big Guy and Tara knocks her out. Moses arrives unexpectedly and fires his shotgun, intending to kill Paul, but Graeme jumps in front of Paul and Ruth and is fatally wounded. Paul once again uses his healing powers, reviving Graeme in spite of the danger to himself. Graeme and Ruth admit their feelings for each other and kiss, but then the Big Guy regains consciousness and holds the group at gunpoint. Just as the Big Guy is about to kill them, she is crushed by a suddenly arriving spaceship. Paul says goodbye to his friends but before he goes, he offers Tara a chance to go with him, promising to give her a new life after ruining her childhood and accidentally killing her dog. The aliens go home as the humans wave them goodbye. Two years later, Graeme, Clive, Ruth, Zoil, and OReilly (who survived the explosion) are at another Comic-Con, where Graeme and Clive are promoting Paul, their best-selling novel.
Paul (film)
2011