In a kitchen of an underground abortionist, a former medical doctor puts on surgical gloves and drinks a glass of whiskey. Face down on the kitchen table is a barely conscious Porter, severely wounded with two large bullet wounds in his back. The doctor pours whiskey on Porters back to sterilize the area and digs out the bullets. Porter spends five months recuperating. Porter begins tracking down gangster Val Resnick and Lynn, his estranged wife and a heroin addict, both of whom betrayed Porter following a $140,000 heist from the local Chinese triads. After Lynn shot Porter and the two left him for dead, Val rejoined the Outfit, using $130,000 of the heist money to repay an outstanding debt. Porter is intent on reclaiming his $70,000 cut. Porter first tracks down and confronts his wife Lynn, who has become a prostitute. After seeing how low she has sunk, Porter takes pity on Lynn and confines her to her bedroom, only to discover the next day that she has died from a heroin overdose. Porter enlists the help of Rosie, a call girl, who is affiliated with the Outfit. Porter once served as her limo driver, during which time they had a one-night stand. Lynns jealousy and the fact that Porter had cheated on her with Rosie led to Resnick and her double-crossing Porter. To get to Resnick, Porter must deal with a lowlife drug dealer and gambler named Arthur Stegman, crime bosses from the Outfit, the Triads, and two corrupt police detectives named Hicks and Leary. Resnick is seeing a dominatrix named Pearl, who has connections with the Triads, when Porter violently re-enters his life. Resnick goes to the Outfit to explain why Porter is demanding $70,000. Resnick is killed by Porter in Rosies apartment when Porter catches him abusing Rosie. Porter then kills three of the Outfits hitmen, who have been sent to kill him. That evening, Porter confronts Carter in his office and threatens to kill him if he refuses to pay the $70,000. Carter explains to Porter that he is only an underboss and is not authorized to make any financial decisions. Porter then makes Carter phone the boss. Porter hears the boss, Bronson, refuse over the phone, so he carries out his threat and kills Carter. With the aid of Rosie, he kidnaps Bronsons son Johnny. He arranges for Hicks and Leary to be busted by their own colleagues in Internal Affairs by planting Learys fingerprints on the gun Porter used to kill Resnick. He steals Hickss badge, then leaves it with the gun in Resnicks hand. The next day, Bronson and his associate Fairfax join the hunt. Porter is captured by the Outfits men after a shootout involving Stegman, Pearl, and the Triads, which ends with Stegman and all of Pearls men being killed. Porter is taken to a warehouse, where he is beaten and tortured for several hours, to force him to give up the location of Bronsons son. Porter is locked inside a car trunk and taken by Bronson and his men to an apartment that had previously been rigged with plastic explosives. After his captors meet an explosive demise, Porter is picked up by Rosie. Taking the $70,000 the mob owed him, they drive off to Canada to begin a new life.
Payback (1999 film)
1999