Maury Dann (Rip Torn) is a successful country-western singer who travels around the Southern states in a Cadillac and gets himself into all sorts of adventures. The film opens with Dann performing in a small club with his band, entourage, and nagging girlfriend, Mayleen, in tow. He meets a young girl named Sandy backstage and seduces her in the back of his car while her boyfriend and boss, Mr. Bridgeway, is looking for her. The band returns to a nearby motel, bringing along Rosamond, a young lady from the show. The next day, Maury visits his invalid mother and, along with a couple of the guys from the band, goes on a hunting trip. He gets into a fistfight with Bob Tally over Maurys dog Snapper, who is not being properly taken care of by Maurys sick mother. After the fight, Maury reluctantly gives Snapper away to Bob, but fires him from the band before returning to the motel. During the trip, Maury seduces Rosamond in the back of the Cadillac, much to Mayleens dismay. Later, while in the ladies room, Mayleen warns Rosamond to stay away from Maury. The band stops by a local radio station to help promote Maurys new album, Payday, and to bribe a DJ with a gift of Wild Turkey liquor to keep playing more of Maurys records on-air. During a heated exchange, Maury kicks Mayleen out of the car and leaves her stranded by the side of the road. Maury take a detour and goes to visit his ex-wife, Galen, in order to celebrate his sons birthday. They get into an argument as well and Maury leaves without seeing his son. At a restaurant, Maury and company are confronted by a drunken Bridgeway, who claims that Maury had raped Sandy the day before. Maury and Bridgeway step outside to discuss the matter. Bridgeway pulls out a knife and tries to attack Maury, who quickly turns the knife around and stabs Bridgeway to death. In order to avoid a scandal and missing tour dates, Maurys tour manager McGinty arranges for his chauffeur, Chicago, to take the blame for Bridgeways death. With Chicago gone, Maury hires a young fan named Ted, an aspiring country singer, to be his new driver. Rosamond, feeling distraught over Bridgeways death, tells Ted that she wants to go home but doesnt have any money to go back. The local police and district attorney come to Maurys motel to bring him in for questioning over Bridgeways death. He makes a dash for the Cadillac. With Ted in the back seat and Maury driving the car, Maury suffers a heart attack and dies behind the wheel. The film ends with Ted, who survives the crash but is badly injured, running out of a wooded area looking for help.
Payday (1972 film)
1972