Martel Gordone had been wandering aimlessly through the desert when he is finally picked up by an African-American woman driving a van dubbed the "Shaggin’ Wagon". The woman, Linda, who picks him up is actually a prostitute on her way to some clients. On the way to the diner where the two parties are to meet Linda and Gordone (nicknamed "Too Sweet" because of his uncontrollable addiction to Mr. Goodbar) spark an interest in each other, but Linda decides to wait until after she has finished with her clients, “You know, honey, it’s got to be business before pleasure, and I’m sure you’re a real pleasure.” They reach the diner and Linda meets with her clients, but when Gordone doesn’t like how she is being treated, he decides to confront the two for their unruly behavior. The confrontation does not bode well for Gordone, for after a little tussling he is knocked out and falls to the ground. He wakes up to find that he has been charged for the murder of one of the bikers whom he had confronted earlier. Gordone is sent to jail and becomes cellmates with a man who goes by the name of "Half Dead." While in his cell, Gordone has to defend himself from constant advances from his cellmate and after a couple of more advances Gordone decides to defend himself from the brute. The two battle it out in the cell until the walls are covered with sweat and blood and Gordone rises triumphantly. The wailing and begging of the prisoner who Gordone beats up attracts a lot of attention; and as it just so happens, there is an illegal boxing tournament that goes on within the prison, led by Lieutenant Arnsworth. The winner of the tournament is allowed to leave the prison on early parole because Lieutenant Arnsworth can pull a few strings on the parole board, and Gordone feels as though he would be able to win it. The only thing that stands in his way is a man by the name of Jesse "The Bull" Amos, who is in charge of everything within the prison and is the leader of the prisons strongest gang.
Penitentiary (1979 film)
1979