In New York City, Zeus and Poseidon meet at the top of the Empire State Building, where Zeus reveals that his master lightning bolt has been stolen and accuses Poseidons demigod son, Percy Jackson, of the theft. Poseidon reminds him that Percy is unaware of his true identity, but Zeus declares that unless his master bolt is returned to Mount Olympus before the summer solstice, in two weeks time, war will be waged between all the gods. Percy is a 16-year-old boy who appears to his peers to be dyslexic and has a unique ability to stay underwater for a long time. While on a school field trip to the local museum, Percy is attacked by Alecto, a Fury disguised as his substitute English teacher, Mrs. Dodds who demands the lightning bolt. Percys best friend, Grover Underwood, and his Latin teacher, Mr. Brunner— both of whom appear disabled— help Percy and scare off Alecto. Upon learning of Alectos reason for the attack, Brunner gives Percy a pen, claiming that it is a powerful weapon, and has Grover take Percy and his mother Sally to Camp Half-Blood, leaving behind Sallys abusive husband, Gabe Ugliano. However, upon arriving at the camp, the three are attacked by the Minotaur, who appears to kill Sally, who is unable to enter the camp. Grover tells Percy to use the pen that he received from Brunner, and Percy discovers it is a sword. He uses his sword to fight the Minotaur, without initial success. Percy kills the Minotaur with his own horn, then faints from shock. Three days later, Percy wakes up in the camp. He learns he is the son of Poseidon, Grover is a disguised Satyr and his junior protector and Brunner is the Centaur, Chiron, also initially disguised. Chiron suggests that Percy go to Mount Olympus to convince Zeus of his innocence. Percy begins training to use his demigod powers, which include water manipulation and using water to heal. He also meets other demigods, including Annabeth Chase, daughter of Athena; and Camp Leader Luke Castellan, son of Hermes. Percy is visited by a fiery apparition of his uncle Hades, who reveals that Sally is with him in the Underworld and that he will return her safely if Percy hands over the lightning bolt. Defying Chirons orders, Percy decides to go to the Underworld believing if he can convince Hades of his innocence, Hades will release his mother, joined by Grover and Annabeth. They visit Luke, who gives them a map showing the location of three pearls belonging to Hades wife, Persephone, which they can use to escape the Underworld. They are also given a pair of winged sneakers Luke stole from his father and a shield Luke describes as his favorite. The trio heads out, locating the first pearl at an old garden center before they suddenly encounter Medusa, who tries to kill them until she is decapitated by Percy; they take her head with them for later use. They locate the second pearl in the Parthenon in Nashville; Percy uses the winged shoes to take it from a statue of Athena. However, they are then confronted by the Hydra, which Grover turns to stone using Medusas head. The last pearl is located at the Lotus Casino in Las Vegas, where the three eat lotus flowers, which make them forget their reason for being there. They stay in the casino for five days until Poseidon speaks in Percys mind, helping Percy return to his senses. Percy frees Grover and Annabeth from the effects of the flowers and they flee, discovering that the casino is run by the Lotus-Eaters, and they had been keeping people captive since ancient times. With all three pearls, Percy, Grover, and Annabeth head into the Underworld, the portal to which is located in Hollywood. In the Underworld, they meet Hades and Persephone. Though Percy tells Hades that he does not have the lightning bolt, Hades finds it hidden inside Lukes shield, revealing that Luke is the lightning thief. Persephone knocks Hades unconscious with the lightning bolt to get her revenge on him for imprisoning her for all eternity and hands the bolt to Percy. However, because they only have three pearls, Grover remains with Persephone to allow Percys mother to leave. Percy, Annabeth, and Sally teleport to the Empire State Building but are attacked by Luke, who wants to destroy Mount Olympus to secure the demigods place as the new rulers of Western Civilization. After a fight across Manhattan, Percy defeats and apparently kills Luke and returns the lightning bolt to Zeus, who forgives Percy and allows Poseidon to briefly speak with his son. The film ends with Percy and Annabeth reuniting with Grover, furloughed from Hades and sporting a new pair of small horns that designate his promotion to Percys senior protector. Percy and Annabeth are reunited, and they nearly kiss but Annabeth tricks Percy and they continue to train. In the post-credits scene, Ugliano is kicked out of the apartment by Sally. He decides to get a beer on his way out, but finds a note from Percy saying that he should not open the refrigerator. He breaks the lock anyway and is turned to stone and killed by Medusas head inside, on a serving plate. One of her snakes blurs the screen, revealing the movies end. The sound of Ugliano turning to stone is heard while the screen is black.
Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief
2013