Grenouille (French for "frog") was born in Paris, France during 1738; his mother is tried almost immediately for previous infanticide, leaving him an orphan. He is fostered but is a difficult solitary child and eventually apprenticed to a tanner. Unknown to other people, he has a remarkable sense of smell, and an extraordinary ability to discern odors; as a result he can perform apparently magical feats such as identifying bad vegetables by the worms they contain, or visitors as they approach the house, and can navigate in total darkness by the smell of objects around him. On a day when he had memorized nearly all the smells of the city, he is surprised by a unique smell. He then traces it with his nose, and finds that the source of this scent is a young virgin girl just passing puberty. She is not much younger than Grenouille. Entranced by her scent and believing that he alone must possess it, he kills her and stays with her body until the scent has left it. In his quest to learn more about the art of perfume-making, he becomes apprenticed to a once great perfumer, Baldini, and proves himself a wonder although this is not revealed to anyone except Baldini. Baldini eventually reveals to him that there are techniques other than distillation that can be used to preserve a wider range of odours, which can be found in the heartland of the perfumers craft, in the region of Grasse, in the French Riviera. On his way to Grasse, Grenouille travels the countryside and discovers that he is disgusted with the scent of humanity. Avoiding habitations, he comes instead to live in a mountain cave for many years. However his peace is ended when he realizes after some years that he himself does not have any scent. Travelling to Montpellier with a fabricated story about being kidnapped and kept in a cave to account for his appearance, he creates a body odour for himself from everyday materials, and finds that his new "disguise" tricks people into thinking that it is the scent of a human; he is now accepted by society instead of shunned. Humanity being fooled by a simple scent, his hatred becomes contempt. He realizes that it is within his ability to develop scents described as "superhuman" and "angelic", that will affect in an unprecedented way how other people perceive him. Reaching Grasse, he trains in the arts of scent extraction and preservation and one day encounters a second scent that is even more inspiring to him than his original victim. It is the scent of a young girl named Laure Richis. He decides this time that he will seek to preserve the scent physically and not just in his memory, and begins a campaign of serial killing of teenage girls to practice keeping and preserving their scent – the victims are not otherwise molested beyond the removal of their hair for scent preservation. Laures father realizes his daughter must be the goal of the murderers campaign and, not telling anybody, takes her to a place of safety, but Grenouille follows them by following her scent, and when they stop for the night, he finally kills her and successfully preserves her scent. He is caught soon afterwards and sentenced to death. However, on the way to his execution he wears a new scent he has created, that causes awe and adoration in others, and although the evidence of his guilt is absolute, the crowd becomes so fond of him, and so convinced of the innocence he now exudes, that he is freed; even Laures father asks if he would consider being adopted as his son. Because of this scent, the entire town participates in a mass orgy of which no one speaks afterwards. Grenouille however now realizes how much he hates people, and that even this degree of control does not make him happy. Returning to Paris, he is torn to pieces by a crowd who are so drawn to him due to his scent that they became compelled to obtain and consume pieces of him. It is notable that this is a suicide. He walks in front of them and, knowing its power, pours the whole bottle of his perfume on himself. The story ends with the crowd, who are left embarrassed by their own action, but are also left "uncommonly proud. For the first time they had done something out of Love."
Perfume (novel)
2006