Following the accidental death of his mother Renee during production of her latest film, thirteen-year-old Jeff Matthews and his veterinarian father Chase move to Renees hometown of Ludlow, Maine. He is introduced to belligerent town sheriff Gus Gilbert and his stepson Drew, whom Gus abuses relentlessly. Jeff also draws the ire of local bully Clyde Parker, who tells him about the story of the Creed family and the legend of the Micmac burial ground. One night, Gus shoots and kills Drews beloved dog Zowie when he disturbs his pet rabbits. Drew asks Jeff to help him bury the dog in the burial ground to see if the rumors are true that it can resurrect the dead. Zowie does indeed return from the dead, but he is uncharacteristically fierce. Chase treats Zowie for his gunshot wound, which refuses to heal; even more bizarre is the fact that Zowie has no heartbeat. Chase sends a sample of Zowies blood to a lab. It turns out that Zowies cells have completely deteriorated and are no different from those of a dead canine. Jeff and Drew go to the pet cemetery on Halloween for a night of horror stories with local boys. When Gus finds out that Drews mother allowed him to go despite being (unfairly) grounded, he rushes to the cemetery and breaks up the party. He attacks his stepson, but just as he is about to hit him with a grave marker, Zowie appears. The dog fatally mauls Gus, whom the boys subsequently bury at the Indian cemetery. Gus returns to life; he now moves stiffly and rarely speaks, but treats Drew better. Gus becomes increasingly crude and sadistic, sexually assaulting Drews mother and brutally skinning his pet rabbits for supper. Zowie breaks out of the veterinary clinic and kills three cats, before entering Chases home and attacking him. A day later, Jeff encounters Clyde – who is about to sever Jeffs nose using the wheel-spokes of his own bicycle when Gus shows up. He sends Jeff home, then murders Clyde as Drew looks on. Gus then pursues Drew to their house, where the boy is trapped with the savage Zowie. He escapes through a window just as his mother arrives home in her car, and the two take off. Gus pursues them at high speed in his police car, then kills them by ramming their car into an oncoming potato truck. Gus then returns to Clydes body and puts it in a body bag, intending to take it to the burial ground as well. After Drews funeral, Jeff decides to reanimate his mother by using the Indian burial ground`s power. Gus exhumes her corpse, and brings it to Jeff at the burial ground. When Chase hears that his wifes grave has been robbed by Gus, he rushes to the Gilbert house. There he is attacked by Zowie and Gus, and he shoots and kills them both. Upon coming back to life, Renee stabs and kills Marjorie Hargrove – the Matthews housekeeper. Jeff confronts his undead mother in the attic, and they embrace. Chase arrives home and urges Jeff to get away from Renee, who says she wants to spend quality time with her husband. An undead Clyde arrives and, after knocking Chase out, tries to kill Jeff; first with an axe, and then with an ice-skate. Renee locks Chase and both boys in the attic, which she then sets on fire. Jeff kills Clyde with a severed livewire, then breaks down the attic door to escape. Renee wants Jeff to stay and join her in death, saying she loves him. But Jeff drags his father out of the house as Renee is destroyed by the flames while shrieking "Dead is better!". In the final scene, a recovering Chase locks up his veterinary clinic, then he and his son leave Ludlow behind.
Pet Sematary Two
1992