In April 1941, in the seemingly idyllic New England town of Peyton Place, drunkard Lucas Cross (Arthur Kennedy) stumbles out of his house as his step-son Paul - fed up with Lucass alcoholism - leaves town. Lucass downtrodden wife, Nellie (Betty Field) goes to work as the housekeeper for Constance "Connie" MacKenzie (Lana Turner), a rather prim-acting local dress shop owner. The daughters of the two families, Allison MacKenzie (Diane Varsi) and Selena Cross (Hope Lange) are best friends and are about to graduate high school. A stranger to the town, Michael Rossi (Lee Philips), is hired to be the new principal of the high school by the president of the school board, Leslie Harrington (Leon Ames), the owner of the local woolen mill; the students choice for the position is long-time teacher, Miss Elsie Thornton (Mildred Dunnock). Arriving at the school, Rossi wins over Ms. Thornton by telling her that he wants to work with her. Later, while picking out dresses for Allisons birthday party, Connie encourages her daughter not to invite Betty Anderson (Terry Moore) to the party, due to Bettys overtly sexual style; ultimately, Constance reconsiders and allows Allison to invite anyone to her party. Betty arrives at Allisons party with Leslie Harringtons son Rodney (Barry Coe), who swiftly turns the affair into a make-out party and kisses Allison; the party is ended, however, when Connie walks in, embarrassing Allison by making a scene. Before church, Allison becomes a witness to Lucas beating his step-daughter Selena. Later that week, Rossi arrives at the MacKenzie house to announce that Allison has been named valedictorian, and he asks Connie to chaperone Allisons graduation dance, and the two slowly develop a romance. Meanwhile, Harrington tells his son, Rodney, that he will not accept his going to the graduation dance with a girl with such a bad reputation as Betty Anderson, and forces Rodney to call Betty and uninvite her to the dance. Instead, Rodney goes with Allison, though Allison is in love with another classmate, the shy Norman Page (Russ Tamblyn) who has an overprotective, widowed mother, Evelyn Page (Erin OBrien-Moore). When they get to the dance, Rodney splits off to make out with Betty in his car, but she is angry at him for dumping her and refuses to have sex with him. After dancing with her, Rossi kisses Connie, but she again rejects his advances. After the dance, Selena is raped by her step-father, Lucas. She becomes pregnant, and when she goes to Dr. Swain for an abortion he refuses, and she confides in him that her step-father raped her. Swain confronts Lucas, and he is forced by Swain to promise to leave town after signing a confession, all of which Nellie secretly witnesses. Lucas chases Selena out of revenge when she returns home, and although she escapes, she falls and injures herself. After treating her, Swain records the operation as an "appendectomy," though in fact she has had a miscarriage. Nellie then becomes morosely despondent. At a picnic that same year, Rodney and Betty reunite and go skinny dipping while Allison and Norman go swimming, in proper suits, nearby. Marion, the town gossip, sees the nude couple and falsely making an assumption, tells Connie it was Allison and Norman. Connie fights with Allison, and Connie tells her that Allisons father was actually married to another woman when she became pregnant with her. Allison runs upstairs and finds that Nellie Cross has committed suicide. This puts Allison into a state of shock, and she is confined to a bed for a time. Sometime after, Rodney and Betty elope, infuriating Rodneys father Leslie. After she recovers, Allison leaves for New York City. World War II erupts during December 1941, and the men of Peyton Place go off to war. When Rodney is killed in action his father offers to take care of his widow, Betty, and she is at last welcomed into the family. Meanwhile, during Christmas of 1942, Connie visits Rossi to apologize for being so dismissive of him, and, when she confesses that she was a married mans mistress, Rossi decides to stay in Peyton Place and promises her his offer for marriage is still open. During the same time, a drunken Lucas returns from the Navy and tries to rape Selena again, but this time she bludgeons him to death in self-defense. Shortly after Easter of 1943, Selena tearfully confesses the killing to Connie and is later arrested and tried by the District Attorney (Lorne Greene) for murder. Allison, still estranged from Connie, returns for the trial, as does Norman, and the truth about Selenas self-defense, her step-fathers abuse and her miscarriage - as well as Dr. Swains false report - all come to light. Dr. Swain admonishes the town for their gossipy nature, and their failure to offer help to Selena when she needed it. Ultimately, Selena is acquitted, and she and Ted are free to marry. Allison has a change of heart, and approaches Connie with a hope of reconciliation. Norman is also welcomed into the house.
Peyton Place (film)
1961