After parking his car and placing a "Happy Now?" sign around his neck, a man attempts to jump off a bridge to hang himself but finds extortionist Jake Farley lying under it. He grabs Jakes foot with the rope but discovers he is dead. Meanwhile at the apartment, beleaguered ex-police officer Joe Paris wakes up with a splitting headache and blood on his shirt after a night of drinking and cannot recall events of the previous night. His fingerprints are discovered at a murder scene and he is arrested by detectives due to his history of violence. The agents assigned public defender Jenny Hudson to meet and defend Joe. Developing a physical attraction to each other and having records at the court, Joe and Jenny arrive at Farleys Bar & Lounge, where Joe meets Jakes brother Matt and leaves the bar with Jenny before escaping from the police in a chase. Later that night, after Kyle and others leave, Jenny meets and converses with Deborah Quinn, whose husband Vincent left town and was killed at their house, which she connects with the death of Joes wife two years before. Deborah also tells Jenny that she met with Farley to have Vincent killed and that Farley refuses to give the money back for her. Back at the apartment Jenny argues with Joe about the murder trial and asks for help but Joe forgets about Deborah and realizes that he is the prime suspect. The next day, after doing research on the computer, Joe goes to the pier and beats up Harry Norton and the gang to retrieve the car. The court reveals the past record that Jake was Kyles father and the recording tape plays the voice that Joe demanding Farley for money and tapes. As the case involving Tony Sklar and others progresses, Harry Norton shoots two men in a car and one of the police. While Jenny stays upstairs, Joe chases Harry but is injured on the sidewalk. Jenny tells Harry that Sklar is absent. They fight until Jenny disarms the gun from Harry, grabs it and shoots him dead. Jenny happily reconciles with Joe who recovers himself.
Physical Evidence (film)
1989