In 1937, a military facility is on watch behind a two-way mirror as a soldier, smoking marijuana, reveals what he hates about the army while remaining euphoric. A high-ranking officer immediately closes the project and deems marijuana illegal. Seventy-one years later, Dale Denton, a 25-year-old process server and habitual marijuana smoker, visits the home of his drug dealer, Saul Silver, to buy marijuana. Saul tells him that he may already know the identity of Dales next customer, Ted Jones. Dale drives to Teds house and witnesses Ted and a police officer, Carol Brazier, shoot a man to death. While fleeing the area, Dale leaves behind his roach, which contains a rare strain of marijuana called Pineapple Express. Ted identifies the strain and sends his two henchmen, Budlofsky and Matheson, to a dealer, Red, who tells them that he has only sold the pot to Saul. At Sauls apartment, Dale learns that Ted is a dangerous drug lord and could trace the roach. Dale and Saul flee into the nearby woods while Teds henchmen persuade Red to arrange a meeting with Saul. They accidentally fall asleep in Dales car and wake up to find that they missed their meeting with Red. They leave the woods and arrive at Reds house, hoping to determine whether Ted has linked them with the Pineapple Express. Red says Ted is not after them. Dale realizes that he is lying and knocks him out. They wake Red and question him until he reveals that Ted has discovered who they are and that he is going to kill them. Dale and Saul decide that they must leave the city. To leave town, Dale and Saul sell Pineapple Express to raise bus fare. However, a police officer named Barber sees Dale and arrests him. In the back of the cruiser, Dale tries to convince Barber that Brazier is corrupt and tells her that he witnessed her and Ted murder a man. Barber recognizes Brazier and promises him that she will investigate her soon because Barber had been long suspicious of Braziers corruption. However, Saul leaps in front of the police car and hijacks it, thinking that Brazier is the one who is driving. Brazier hears a police radio call of Dales arrest and pursues Dale and Saul in a high-speed chase, but they escape. After an argument about their situation, Dale and Saul split up. Saul visits his grandmother in an assisted living home, but he is kidnapped and held hostage in Teds lair beneath a barn. Dale enlists Red to help him rescue Saul. Red unexpectedly backs out at the last minute, and Dale is captured. While Dale and Saul are held hostage, they reconcile and plan their escape. Asian mobsters attack the barn to avenge a fellow gangsters death at the hands of Ted and Officer Brazier (the same murder that Dale witnessed). Dale and Saul free themselves but are caught by Matheson. Matheson grazes Dales ear with a gunshot, but he is disarmed and shot by Saul. Dale and Saul join the fight, and a brawl ensues between Dale and Ted. When Budlofsky refuses to kill Saul, Matheson emerges from the lair and shoots him in the chest, killing him. He turns around to kill Saul, but Red drives through the barn and saves Saul by hitting Matheson with his car. Red seems to be shot to death by Brazier. One of the mobsters activates a bomb, resulting in Teds death, and setting fire to the barn. When Reds car explodes, it flips over and lands on Brazier, killing her. The explosion incapacitates Saul, but Dale finds him and carries him from the burning barn. Red, wounded but still alive, also escapes and reconciles with them. Afterward, they eat breakfast at a diner and talk about their adventure before Sauls grandmother picks them up and takes them to the hospital.
Pineapple Express (film)
2008