Lt. Jeffrey Knight, a new officer from the United States Military Academy, is airlifted to an outpost in Vietnam, where he meets his platoon, a group of tough-witted veterans of the war. Platoon Sergeant McNamara explains to Knight that the platoon does not need a leader that follows rules. Lt. Knights actions are also frowned upon by all of his men except for Pvt. Parker, the radio operator. On one of his first patrols, Knight stumbles carelessly over a trip mine and is nearly killed. Parker then radios for an evac and McNamara orders the troops to move to an LZ for an extraction. Later, while Lt. Knight is recovering from his wounds in an Army hospital, Major Flynn asks him if he is able to take command again and Knight agrees. Knight is airlifted back to his platoons outpost but is not greeted by his men and finds his gear missing from his quarters, as they did not expect him to return. When they realise Knight has returned, the soldiers rush to return his property outside his office before he comes back out. Knight realises that he must take a different approach to have his mens respect. Back on patrol, the platoon is attacked by heavy Vietcong (VC) forces and Parker is hit by mortar fire. Knight calls up his Medic to save Parker, but Parkers wounds are mortal and he dies in Knights arms. McNamara then arrives with his squad and the group repels the enemy who retreats towards Sergeant Roach, who carries a shotgun and is considered the platoons toughest soldier. Roach then kills the remaining VC easily. A week later, Major Flynn gives Knight 3 new replacements including a rebellious Private named Don Pike. Knight finds Pikes demeanor disruptive and sends him to Sergeant Roachs mine sweeping detail. Roach then has Pike hold his trigger finger on a live mine while Roach takes a break to urinate. Later, Knight finds Private Bacera getting high in his barracks when he was supposed to be leaving on patrol. Knight confronts Bacera and dumps out the drugs he found and personally leads the patrol the next day, keeping a close eye on Bacera. Even so, Bacera sneaks a hit when recusing himself to urinate. Knight finds Bacera expired with a needle still in his arm, having suddenly overdosed, causing Knight to be angry with himself. Late at night, Knight wakes to find an enemy in the camp, killing him and alerting the men that the outpost will be attacked. The platoon prepares for the attack and shoots off flares to illuminate the battlefield showing the VC advancing on them with an enormous force. The base is hit hard. Sergeant Hayes uses his claymores and Knight calls for an airstrike to repel the enemy, but the platoon suffers heavy casualties in fending off the attack. The next morning, Knight confesses that he feels that he cant be a leader, but McNamara tells him that he got them this far and can do the rest. Knight is then met by Captain Killinski, Lt. Riley and another Lt. Captain Killinsky explains the rest of the VC battalion they fought off during the night is nearby, and outlines a plan to attack the enemy. Knight counters with an idea he believes work better, and after consulting with the other two Lieutenants, Killinsky agrees to the new plan, trusting in Knights experience. Knights platoon moves to their position in the jungle and Knight orders McNamara to scout ahead to bring another platoon into position. McNamera is ambushed before reaching the other platoon and severely injured. Knight and his squad fight to reach McNamera and bring him to an LZ to evac him via helicopter. Captain Killinski tells Knight that a company of VC slipped through and are attacking the village. Knights platoon arrives at the village and kill off the VC company. The platoon is then attacked by Mortar fire and Knight is hit by shrapnel, damaging his eye, but Sergeant Roach applies first aid. Roach brings a baby from one of the destroyed huts and explains the VC were after the villagers not the soldiers. After the battle, Knight visits McNamara and sees hes okay. He explains to him they lost the village, but they fought off the VC. He then says that hes starting to understand the meaning of this war and lets McNammera rest. A couple months later, McNamara returns to the base with Knight greeting him saying "welcome back to the country club" as they embrace.
Platoon Leader (film)
1988