The film begins in a large garage structure, where Lt. Proctor (Lance Kinsey) and Commandant Mauser (Art Metrano) meet up with former cadets (now Sgts.) Chad Copeland (Scott Thomson) and Kyle Blankes (Brant van Hoffman) from Commandant Lassards police academy. It seems one of the two police academies is getting the axe due to the state governments unwillingness to continue financing two academies, and Mauser wants Copeland and Blankes to make sure Lassard screws up. The men agree to the plan, knowing this may be their only chance at revenge against Lassard for (somewhat deservingly) graduating them at the bottom of their class. The following day, after the governors speech in which he will appoint a committee to evaluate which of the two academies should remain open, Mauser starts getting an edge by kissing up to the governor, but Sgt. Jones (Michael Winslow) quickly prevents this by discreetly humiliating Mauser in front of the governor with his noise imitations. Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes) gets an idea on how to win: along with now Sgt. Jones and Lt. Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook), he calls back Sgt. Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg), Sgt. Hooks (Marion Ramsey), Sgt. Hightower (Bubba Smith), and Sgt. Tackleberry (David Graf) to help train the new recruits. Among the new recruits are Sgt. Facklers wife (Debralee Scott), whom Sgt. Fackler is against being trained to be a police officer; Sweetchuck (Tim Kazurinsky) and Zed (Bobcat Goldthwait), who have a history from the second movie as a meek small business owner being harassed by a gang led by Zed); Karen Adams (Shawn Weatherly); and Tackleberrys brother-in-law Bud Kirkland (Andrew Paris). Tomoko Nogata (Brian Tochi) is at first a recruit of Mausers academy, but Mauser transfers him in with Lassards academy instead in hopes of sabotaging the latters academy further. After a few weeks of training, Nogata is lovestruck over Callahan. Sweetchuck contemplates quitting after Zed, whom he was forced to room with, drives him crazy, but Tackleberry talks him out of it and takes him under his wing. Copeland and Blankes make the recruits do things that would make the committee think they are incompetent. The recruits fail and are teased by Mauser and Proctor. However, Mahoney gets back at them by taping Mausers eyes closed while doing a taste test. Proctor succeeds in removing the tape, but the tape pulls off Mausers eyebrows. Both Lassard and Mahoney give a pep talk to each of the cadets before training resumes. At the policepersons ball, Mahoney meets up with his hooker friend from the first film (Georgina Spelvin), and has her do a favor on Proctor after the latter insults Mahoney and Adams. The hooker tricks Proctor into removing all his clothes and then locking him out of the hotel room, and while trying to get back to his academy, Proctor accidentally enters the Blue Oyster Bar. Meanwhile, Mauser insults Lassard in front of the recruits by telling him that he is winning, so Mahoney gets him back by giving a speech at the ball and then putting the microphone in a pitcher of water. When Mauser grabs it, the microphone shocks him. On the final day of the cadet training/evaluation competition, one recruit from each academy attends the governors ball (Proctor misunderstands and sends in two, one of whom is portrayed by David James Elliott). Copeland and Blankes play with the computer system and send cars to the wrong locations in their attempt to help Mauser win, but they are caught by Hooks, who knocks them out cold. At the governors party, a gang of thieves dressed as busboys start robbing the guests and take the governor hostage. Mausers cadets promptly faint upon being threatened by the thieves, but Lassards cadet Hedges (David Huband) manages to sound the alarm, prompting Mahoney and the gang to rescue the governor. Mausers academy proves to be ineffective to react to the emergency, but Lassards squad arrives just in time to fight off the thieves and rescue the governor. As a result of the governors final judgment, Lassards academy stays open, and the epilogue shows Lassard delivering a speech on how the academy is grateful for the "many, many" recruits. The graduating class salutes the camera as the film ends.
Police Academy 3: Back in Training
1986