Captain Harris finally finds the goods he needs to push Commandant Eric Lassard out at the Police Academy: he is one year late for mandatory retirement. But before he retires, Lassard is chosen as "Police Officer of the Decade," and brings his favorite graduates—Sgts. Hightower, Jones, Tackleberry and Hooks, Lt. Callahan, and new graduate Officer Thomas "House" Conklin—to the National Police Chiefs Convention in Miami Beach to celebrate with him. While there, they meet his nephew, Sgt. Nick Lassard of the Miami Police Department. Lassard unwittingly takes a bag belonging to jewel thieves containing stolen diamonds. As the jewel thieves try to get the bag back, and Captain Harris tries to prove to Commissioner Hurst that hes the right man to replace Commandant Lassard, the usual hijinks ensue, including Lassard trying to guess the annual procedural demonstration. When the jewel thieves kidnap Commandant Lassard, he goes willingly, thinking its indeed the procedural demonstration. It launches a negotiation, which Captain Harris botches, getting himself captured as well. A chase across the Everglades ensues to rescue the oblivious Commandant. In a standoff with the smugglers, Nick explains to his uncle that the situation isnt a demonstration and that his kidnappers are in fact real criminals. Lassard, upon hearing this information, promptly disarms and subdues his assailants to the amazement of all the officers. At a ceremony at the end of the film, Commissioner Hurst announces that Commadant Lassard will be allowed to continue his duties as Commadant until he sees fit to retire, much to Harris chagrin, as well as Hightowers promotion to Lieutenant. Lassard is seen proudly graduating the new class. As form of revenge for Harris earlier sabotage against his uncle, Nick intentionally moves the chair away from Harris. Proctor tries to help him, but kicks the chair too hard and sending both it and Harris on a collision into the drum set. As the police marching band walks off in parade, Harris is seen screaming for Proctor to help him.
Police Academy 5: Assignment Miami Beach
1988