The police must investigate a series of robberies along a strip of land in the city. The mayor (Kenneth Mars) assigns Captain Harris (G.W. Bailey) and Lt. Proctor (Lance Kinsey) to the case. While on stakeout the Wilson-Heights gang, composed of Ace (Gerrit Graham), Flash (Brian Seeman), and Ox (Darwyn Swalve), manages to slip through their fingers. When the squad arrives and points out the fur store that was robbed, Proctor revealed he tried to tell Harris about it, but the latter wouldnt listen. In his office, the mayor is furious with the latest crime spree and reprimands Harris for his precincts slow response and Hurst for not being strict with the former. Despite arguing their case, he points out that because of their slow response, everyone thinks hes incompetent to do his job and are leaving town. Under threat by the governor with revocation of his job, the mayor orders Harris, Hurst and Proctor to work with Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes) to apprehend the gang. Lassard assembles a seven-man team consisting of Hightower (Bubba Smith), Tackleberry (David Graf), Jones (Michael Winslow), Hooks (Marion Ramsey), Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook), Fackler (Bruce Mahler), and Lassards nephew, Nick (Matt McCoy). After distributing flyers as to the information of the Wilson gang and getting nowhere, Nick stumbles upon a paper reporting an antique diamond heading to a museum, and gets an idea to use it as bait: however the robbers nab the diamond anyway by cutting a hole in the truck and escaping through the sewer system. Nick then decides to go undercover to get information regarding a possible hideout, but Harris decides to go undercover to get a confession. Despite his fear of heights, Harris goes undercover as a window washer at a tall building and gets a confession of himself on tape after Proctor accidentally knocks him over the balcony. The robberies are committed by a group of three dimwitted criminals who dont seem to be able to do this on their own, and its revealed they are being guided by a shadow figure known as the "Mastermind," who speaks to the three behind a wall of glass and uses a voice distortion device. He devises a plan to get the cops out of the way. Commandant Lassard and his men are later suspended after jewelry from the gangs last robbery is found in Lassards office, pending an investigation. The gang decides to clear his name by nabbing the gang and the ringleader. Accessing data files from a computer, Nick deduces that the robberies are occurring along a bus route, thus intentionally lowering property values in that part of the city. They also learn that someone must be leaking information to the bad guys, which is why they are always one step ahead of the police. The police academy force finds and does battle with the Wilson gang, taking down Ace, Flash, and Ox, while Nick chases the leader. A pursuit follows, which leads to Commissioner Hursts (George Robertson) office. Though the others are fooled by the fact there are two versions of Commissioner Hurst, Nick wasnt fooled and is able to help them point out the real Hurst from the fake with a Pinocchio test. With that, Hightower removes the mask and reveals the "Mastermind" as the mayor. Caught, the mayor admitted that Captain Harris has been unwittingly leaking information during his daily meetings with him and how he couldve made billions off the properties if it hadnt been for Lassard and his team. Hurst tells Hightower to take the mayor into custody with his gang. He apologizes and reinstates the force, and a plaque is given to honor the officers bravery the next day. As the movie closes, Harris is sitting in a chair when a string tying the balloon float is cut, lifting his chair and floating him up into the air as he shouts Proctors name. As he floats away, it is revealed that it was Commander Lassard who actually cut the string out of revenge for Harris actions for getting him and his team off the case with his manipulation.
Police Academy 6: City Under Siege
1989