Pollyanna is the 12-year-old orphaned daughter of missionaries who arrives in the fictional small town of Harrington to live with her rich and strict aunt, Polly Harrington, in the 1900s. Pollyanna is a very cheerful, talkative and radically optimistic youngster who focuses on the goodness of life and always finds something to be glad about, no matter the situation. In doing so, Pollyannas positive outlook on everything results in her making a wide variety of friends in the community, including the hypochondriac and grouchy Mrs. Snow and the acidic recluse Mr. Pendergast. Aunt Pollys wealth controls most of the town, and, when most of the Harrington citizens want a derelict orphanage razed and rebuilt, Aunt Polly opposes the idea, arguing that her father donated the building to the town, and that it is an important landmark. The townspeople defy her by planning a carnival to raise funds for a new structure. However, because of the control Aunt Polly asserts over every facet of the town, many people feel reluctant to show their support. Aunt Polly becomes furious about their audacity, and she forbids Pollyanna to participate. A group of citizens led by Dr. Edmond Chilton, Aunt Pollys ex-boyfriend, tries to persuade the towns minister, Rev. Ford, to publicly declare his support for the bazaar by reminding him that "nobody owns a church." Rev. Ford is reminded of the truth of that statement talking to Pollyanna, who delivers a note from Aunt Polly with recommendations to his sermon content. At church the following Sunday, having gained the gumption to defy Aunt Polly, Rev. Ford declares his support for the bazaar and encourages all to attend. On the evening of the carnival, Pollyanna is locked in her attic bedroom by Aunt Polly, but is "rescued" by playmate Jimmy Bean, who reminds her that she will lead "America, The Beautiful" at the high point of the event. With Jimmys help, she slips away and has a wonderful time at the carnival. After returning home, she avoids Aunt Polly by climbing a tree to her attic bedroom. When she reaches her bedroom window, she loses her new doll, which falls to the ground. Pollyanna slips and falls unconscious. Aunt Polly comes out with the maids and only then she feels guilt for what she has done. Pollyanna learns about being paralyzed and unable to use her legs again. As a result, she develops severe depression and jeopardizing her chance of recovery thinking that her aunt never loved her. Upon learning how her own behavior has isolated her from the town and Pollyanna, Aunt Polly continues to feel guilt. While talking to Dr. Chilton, she admits that her niece needed her love and the town wanted Pollys friendship. She refused to give any to them and blames herself for the accident. Dr. Chilton tells Aunt Polly that they can give Pollyanna the love together and help mend the isolation she put on the townsfolk. When the townspeople learn of Pollyannas accident, they arrive at Aunt Pollys house with outpourings of love. Dr. Chilton carries the reluctant girl downstairs, where, one by one, the neighbors wish her health. Pollyannas spirit gradually returns to its usual hopefulness and love of life. She also learns that Jimmy had been adopted by Mr. Pendergast and that Nancy and her fiancé are engaged. Pollyanna turns to her aunt who embraces her. She leaves Harrington with Aunt Polly and Dr. Chilton for an operation in Baltimore, which, it is hoped, will correct her injury.
Pollyanna (1960 film)
1960