Told in the form of a musical documentary, Conner Friel (Andy Samberg) is a musical prodigy at an early age, and he forms a rap group, The Style Boyz, with his childhood friends Lawrence (Akiva Schaffer) and Owen (Jorma Taccone). They almost instantly gain fame in the music industry, inspiring many of todays musicians. However, failing to receive credit for writing Conners guest verse on the Poppy-winning single "Turn Up the Beef", Lawrence leaves. After the Style Boyz disband, Conner becomes a solo act, taking on the name "Conner4Real", with Owen as his DJ. Lawrence begins farming in Colorado after a failed attempt at going solo. Conners debut album, Thriller, Also, rockets to the top of the charts and Conners fame increases. In 2015, Conner releases his sophomore album, Connquest, which receives terrible reviews due to Conner using hundreds of producers rather than Owens beats. With sales surprisingly low, Conners manager, Harry (Tim Meadows), suggests having Aquaspin, a manufacturer that makes home appliances, sponsor the tour. The companys appliances begin playing Conners songs when in use, causing a nationwide power outage that generates a wave of backlash among Conners fans. Conner begins his album tour, but the shows do not sell as well as he had hoped. Harry suggests they hire hip-hop artist Hunter the Hungry (Chris Redd) as an opening act, and the ticket sales begin to rise. Conner starts to add new gimmicks to his act, including a robotic mask for Owen, publicizing his relationship with actress Ashley Wednesday (Imogen Poots), and a stage trick where he changes costumes in seconds behind a curtain. The trick is seemingly botched in Nashville, when Conner becomes naked (without a penis) mid-concert, thus becoming the subject of mockery. Conners publicist, Paula (Sarah Silverman), suggests he pull another publicity stunt to deflect attention from his humiliation. Conner decides to propose to Ashley on live TV, with a display including a number of trained wolves and a performance by Seal. The music agitates the wolves and they break loose, mauling Seal and the attendees. The backlash against Conner grows, and Ashley breaks up with him and starts dating Seal, who sues Conner for his injuries. Owen, worried about the declining quality of his friends music, sets up a meeting between himself, Conner, and Lawrence. The reunion ends poorly when Conner refuses to acknowledge that Lawrence wrote the track that launched his career. Despite Conners poor reputation, The Tonight Show agrees to book him on an episode. Jimmy Fallon suddenly invites Conner to perform the Style Boyz hit song "Donkey Roll" along with Owen, which is received well by the crowd despite Conners reluctance. As the tour progresses, Hunter begins to overshadow Conner, selling more records than him and dragging out his act before Conners show. At a concert, Hunter announces that he will perform as long as possible, causing Conner to rush the stage. A brawl ensues when Hunter quietly admits that he orchestrated Conners wardrobe malfunction. Conner demands that Harry let Hunter go and fires Harry after finding out that he has signed Hunter. Connquest is later knocked off the charts and Aquaspin decides to pull their sponsorship. The remainder of the tour is cancelled, and Owen decides to leave the team when Conner questions his loyalty. After his beloved pet turtle dies, Conner sinks into a depression and moves into his mothers house. He begins drinking heavily and starts selling crude horse drawings online. Paula forces Conner to leave the house and takes him to a club featuring Owen. Owens music and production are strong, though his singing is subpar. Conner and Owen reconcile and decide to finally make amends with Lawrence. Conner gives Lawrence his Poppy and apologizes, acknowledging Lawrences contribution to his music. Conner and Owen discover that Lawrence owns a giant marijuana farm and a music studio in his farmhouse. As the three collaborate in Lawrences studio, Conner receives news from Paula that a six-minute slot has opened for Conner to perform at the Poppy Music Awards, and with encouragement from his friends, he decides to reunite The Style Boyz. At the Poppys, Hunter humiliates himself after arguing with Mariah Carey on stage and Harry quits as his manager after being insulted by him. Conner reconciles with Harry and later finds out that the six-minute slot has been shortened to three minutes, forcing him to perform either a Conner4Real song or a Style Boyz song. Conner decides to perform The Style Boyzs new song, "Incredible Thoughts" featuring Michael Bolton. The film ends with Conner reflecting on the lessons he has learned and the value of holding onto relationships after reaching stardom, and introduces a new baby turtle named Maximus II.
Popstar: Never Stop Never Stopping
2016