Maria Owens, a young witch, is exiled to Marias Island in Massachusetts with her unborn child after escaping her own execution when the rope meant to hang her, snaps instead, and she lands on her feet before the accusing townsfolk. When her lover does not come to rescue her, she desperately casts a spell upon herself to stop herself from ever falling in love again. The spell turns into a curse, affecting all the coming generations of women in the Owens family. In the present day, Gillian and Sally Owens, the most recent descendants of Maria Owens, are taken in by their maternal aunts Frances and Jet after the death of their parents. Sally is the more gifted of the two while Gillians talents are more in charm and persuasion, and both have been subject to ridicule during their youth. After witnessing their aunts cast a spell on a man for a woman who seems obsessed with having his love, Gillian decides to fall in love and Sally casts a true love spell to protect herself. The sisters cast an oath to each other using blood from both of their hands and Gillian leaves for Los Angeles. Sally meets and marries Michael, a local produce seller. Years later, the two open their botanical shop Verbena and have two young daughters, Kylie and Antonia. Michael is killed after being hit by a truck. Devastated, Sally and her daughters return to the Owens home to live with the aunts, and realize that the aunts cast a spell so she would finally have something normal, not expecting Sally and Michael to fall in love and thus trigger the curse. Sally decides that she and her daughters will not perform magic. As Gillian begins a relationship with Jimmy Angelov in Orlando, she can feel Sallys emotional state, and feeling that Sally needs her she drugs Jimmy to return to Massachusetts. Gillian calls Sally to come and get her after Jimmy becomes abusive, but he kidnaps the sisters, forcing them to drive across the country. Sally puts belladonna into Jimmys tequila, inadvertently killing him, as he tries to strangle Gillian. The sisters get back home, then resurrect him using the forbidden spell from their aunts book of spells, but Jimmy attempts to kill Gillian again after being revived. Sally kills him again, and the sisters bury his remains in their homes garden. Telltale signs begin occurring, indicating that the nieces did something wrong, yet they do not confess to their aunts when confronted. Frances and Jet take a leave of absence after giving Kylie and Antonia protection wards, and a message to pass on: "clean up your own mess!" State investigator Gary Hallett arrives from Tucson, Arizona in search of Jimmy, who is also a serial killer. As Gary begins to suspect Sally, Gillian, Kylie and Antonia create a potion to banish Gary; however, the girls realize he is the one described in Sallys true love spell, and remove the potion. Later, Sally has Gary record her testimony and sees the letter she had once written Gillian, and realizes he must have read it more times than he had let on. Unable to deny their feelings for each other, they kiss and Sally realizes that he was there because of the spell she cast years earlier. Sally discovers that Jimmys spirit has possessed Gillians body and Gary sees Jimmys spirit emerge. Jimmy attempts to kill Gary, reaching into his chest to arrest his heart, only to be hurt by his silver star-shaped badge and is temporarily exiled. Later, Sally tells Gary that he is there because of her spell and the feelings they have for each other are not real. Gary replies that curses are only true if one believes in them and reveals that he also wished for her, before returning to Tucson. Jimmy possesses Gillian again and attempts to kill Sally before Frances and Jet return. Sally, realizing she must embrace magic to save her sister, asks the aid of the townswomen and they form a coven to exorcise Jimmys spirit. Sally makes them stop when she sees that the effort might kill Gillian. Getting inside the circle, Sally repeats her oath with Gillian, again slicing their palms to join their blood in promise. They are able to break the Owens curse, exorcising Jimmys spirit and allowing the coven to exile him permanently. After returning to Tucson, Gary clears the sisters of any suspicion of wrongdoing in Jimmys case, informing them via registered mail, and Sally is forced to come to a decision, encouraged by Gillian to take a risk for "the right guy." Echoing back to her original spell, Sally sends out a message via the wind, and in Arizona, Gary is greeted with buffeting winds. He returns to Massachusetts to be with Sally. The Owens women celebrate Halloween dressed up in witch costumes, and are embraced and welcomed by the townsfolk.
Practical Magic
1998