In 1997, Los Angeles is suffering from both a heat wave and a turf war between heavily armed Colombian and Jamaican drug cartels. A Predator watches a shootout between the police and Colombians, observing as Lieutenant Michael R. Harrigan charges into the firefight to rescue two wounded officers and drive the Colombians back into their hideout. The Predator assaults the Colombians, causing a disturbance that prompts Harrigan and his police detectives Leona Cantrell and Danny Archuleta to defy orders and enter the hideout. They find the Colombians have been slaughtered. Harrigan pursues the crazed gang leader onto the roof and shoots him in self-defense, believing him to be attacking Harrigan, when the latter panickedly opens fire at the camouflaged Predator. Harrigan himself catches a glimpse of the alien, but dismisses it as an effect of the extreme heat and his acrophobia. At the station, Harrigan is reprimanded by his superiors for his defiance. He is introduced to Special Agent Peter Keyes, leader of the task force investigating the cartels, and Detective Jerry Lambert, the newest member of Harrigans team. Later that evening, several Jamaican cartel members storm the Colombian drug lords penthouse. After they ritualistically murder him, they are slaughtered by the Predator. Harrigans team enter the penthouse where they find the Jamaicans skinned corpses suspended from the rafters, noting the similarity to the earlier Colombian massacre. Keyes arrives and kicks Harrigans team out. Archuleta later returns to continue investigating. After he finds one of the Predators speartip weapons in an air conditioning vent, the lurking Predator kills him. Harrigan vows to bring down Dannys killer, believing they are dealing with an assassin. Forensic analysis reveals the speartip is not composed of any known element on the periodic table. Seeking answers, Harrigan meets with Jamaican drug lord King Willie, a voodoo practitioner, in an alley. King Willie tells Harrigan that the killer is supernatural, and that he should prepare himself for battle against him. Harrigan, even more puzzled, leaves before the Predator kills King Willie, taking his head as a trophy. For Harrigans persistence, the Predator begins to mark him as his ultimate hunting challenge. Tracing a lead indicating Dannys killer had recently been in a slaughterhouse, Harrigan arranges to meet his team at a warehouse district to investigate. Cantrell and Lambert take the subway to the rendezvous when the Predator, hunting Harrigans subordinates, suddenly attacks during a standoff between a gang and a group of vigilantes. The Predator kills the gang and multiple vigilantes; Lambert faces off against the Predator and is killed. Cantrell is spared after the Predators scan of her body reveals that she is pregnant. Arriving on the scene to find numerous armed civilians dead in addition to Lambert, Harrigan chases the fleeing Predator but is intercepted by Keyes men. Keyes reveals that the killer is an extraterrestrial hunter with infrared vision that uses active camouflage and has been hunting humans for sport throughout armed conflicts, most recently in Central America. Keyes and his team have set a trap in a nearby slaughterhouse, using thermally insulated suits and cryogenic weapons to capture it for study. When the Predator arrives, the trap is sprung. However, the Predator uses its mask to scan through various electromagnetic wavelengths to identify the light from the teams torches. It easily outmaneuvers and slaughters the men before heavily wounding Keyes. Harrigan then attacks the Predator, badly wounding it before it rallies, destroys his weapon and closes in. Harrigan is saved by the sudden reappearance of Keyes, who tries to incapacitate the alien but is killed by its throwing disc. The Predator chases Harrigan to a roof and the two foes clash, leaving them hanging from a ledge. The alien activates a self-destruct device on its forearm which Harrigan then severs using the throwing disc, rendering the device harmless. The Predator falls through an apartment window, treats its wounds and flees through the building. Harrigan follows it down an elevator shaft and finds a spacecraft in an underground chamber. Inside the ship, after Harrigan briefly glimpses a trophy room with various skulls (including a Xenomorph), he and the Predator face off in a final duel ending when Harrigan finally kills the Predator using its throwing disc. Several other Predators suddenly appear, collecting their dead comrade, and one of them presents Harrigan with an antique flintlock pistol as a trophy. Harrigan escapes from the ship as it takes off. He reaches the surface just as the remainder of Keyes team arrives. As Keyes subordinate Garber curses their lost opportunity to capture the alien, Harrigan privately muses that the creatures will return.
Predator 2
2010