A spacecraft flies near Earth and releases a bright object which enters the atmosphere. In the Val Verde jungle, US Army Major Alan "Dutch" Schaefer and his Special Forces team — medic Mac Elliot, tracker Billy Sole, gunner Blain Cooper, explosives expert Jorge "Poncho" Ramírez, and radio operator Rick Hawkins — are tasked by the CIA with rescuing an official held hostage by insurgents. CIA agent Al Dillon, a former commando and an old friend of Dutch, is assigned to supervise the team, despite Dutchs objections. The team discovers the wreckage of a helicopter and three skinned corpses, whom Dutch identifies as members of another US Army Special Forces unit that he knew personally at Fort Bragg. They reach the insurgent camp and kill the insurgents, including a Soviet intelligence officer searching through secret CIA documents. Confronted by Dutch, Dillon admits the mission was a setup to retrieve intelligence from captured operatives and that the dead military unit disappeared weeks earlier in a failed rescue. After capturing Anna, a guerrilla member, the team proceeds to extraction, unaware that it is being tracked with thermal imaging by an unseen observer. Anna escapes and is chased by Hawkins, but they are ambushed by the creature. It spares Anna but kills Hawkins and drags his body away. Dutch organizes a manhunt, during which Blain is killed by the creatures plasma weapon. An enraged Mac initiates a firefight which wounds the creature, revealing luminescent green blood, but fails to draw it out. The unit regroups and questions Anna, learning that the stalker is a creature that locals call "el demonio que hace trofeos de los hombres" ("the demon who makes trophies of men"). That night, Mac mistakes a wild pig for the creature and kills it. In the confusion, the creature steals Blains body, leading Dutch to realize that their enemy uses the trees to travel. The next day, an attempt to trap the creature fails, leaving Poncho injured. Mac and Dillon pursue the alien, but it outmaneuvers and kills them both. It catches up with the others, killing Billy and Poncho and wounding Dutch. Realizing the creature does not target unarmed prey because there is "no sport", Dutch sends Anna to the helicopter unarmed. The creature pursues Dutch through a river, causing its cloaking device to malfunction. Though the creature is only a few feet from Dutch, it does not see him and moves on. Dutch realizes that mud covering his body is masking his heat signature, deducing that the creature must see in infrared. While the creature collects trophies from the bodies, Dutch crafts traps and weapons and lures the creature with a war cry. He disables its cloaking device and inflicts minor injuries, but becomes cornered in the pursuit. Acknowledging Dutch as a worthy foe, the creature discards its mask and plasma weapon, and engages him in hand-to-hand combat. Dutch is almost beaten, but crushes the creature under a traps counterweight. As the creature lies dying, Dutch asks in disgust, "What the hell are you?". The alien simply repeats the question in garbled English before activating a self-destruct device, laughing maniacally as the countdown begins. Dutch takes cover just before the device explodes, resulting in a mushroom cloud which is visible to the extraction team. He is picked up by his commander, Homer Phillips, and Anna in the helicopter.
Predator (film)
1990