Jim (Julian McMahon) and Linda Hanson (Sandra Bullock) are married with two daughters, Megan (Shyann McClure) and Bridgette (Courtney Taylor Burness) but their relationship is faltering. While Jim is away on a business trip, Linda is left to take care of the girls. After Linda listens to a message from Jim, Sheriff Reilly (Marc Macaulay) knocks on the door and tells Linda that her husband died in a car accident on the previous day. Linda’s mother, Joanne (Kate Nelligan) arrives to help the family through its grief. Linda falls asleep on the living room couch, only to wake up in bed instead. She is shocked to see that Jim is downstairs drinking coffee and watching TV. While on the road, Linda is pulled over by Sheriff Reilly and learns that he has no knowledge of her. Before the day ends, she accidentally falls on a dead crow while hanging laundry in her yard. The next day, Jim is once again dead and Bridgette has a gash on her face. Linda awakes next to an empty bottle of lithium pills, prescribed by Dr. Norman Roth. Family members, along with Lindas friend Annie (Nia Long) attend the burial for Jim. Linda finds Dr. Roths phone number in the garbage can but his voice mail message states that the office is only open on weekdays. Roth (Peter Stormare) later subdues Linda with two assistants and Sheriff Reilly. Joanne arrives and says that Linda needs to be committed to a mental health facility. Linda wakes up in her bed again and finds Jim in the shower. After dropping the girls off at school, she stops in her driveway and opens the garbage to discover the crows body inside. She goes to see Dr. Roth who does not recognize her. Linda tells Roth about the premonitions she has been having until he prescribes lithium. Back at the house, Linda sees Bridgette running toward the glass doors. Despite Lindas urging, she runs through it hurting her face and hands. Linda throws Dr. Roths number in the garbage before realizing that the days are unfolding out of order. She records Tuesday as the current day, Saturday as the funerals day and Friday as a day yet to come. Before Jim goes to bed she makes him promise that "if tomorrow is Wednesday, please, please wake me up before you leave." On Friday and visits the insurance agent who tells her that Jim tripled his life insurance benefits on the morning of his accident. On the previous Sunday, Linda visits Father Kennedy (Jude Ciccolella) who tells her a story about a woman with similar experiences who was later hanged for witchcraft. Eventually, Linda visits the site of the accident. She stares at the "Mile 220" sign, which is where Sheriff Reilly told her the accident took place. Images of her family flash before her eyes as Linda tries to decide what to do. That night, Linda puts pressure on Jim and the kids to show more affection for each other. She continues acting strange, so Jim tries to comfort her. She tells him that she’s had a dream where he died. He tells her that it is just a dream and that everything will be fine. A storm rages on and a crow is struck by a falling power line. Linda wakes up in her bed on Wednesday and reads a note from Jim saying that he has taken the kids to school. Linda begins to search for Jim, who then calls the house and leaves the message from the beginning of the film. The two have a reconciliation. Then Linda tries to save Jim from the car accident over the phone; however, her attempt fails. The movie ends with Linda pregnant with another child.
Premonition (2007 film)
2007