Poitier plays the chief psychiatrist at an institution in 1962. A young psychiatrist (Peter Falk) on his staff is frustrated with his patient and demands that his patient be assigned to another psychiatrist. The doctor then tells of having a similar experience 20 years earlier with a Nazi sympathizer at a federal penitentiary where he then worked as a psychiatrist. A flashback begins. In the flashback, a new prisoner (Bobby Darin) arrives and is assigned to the doctor. The doctor soon discovers the prisoner was arrested for sedition for joining the German American Bund and calling for overthrow of the American government. The prisoner discusses sociopathic behaviors throughout his life with the psychiatrist, each being shown as a flashback first to his childhood where he had an abusive alcoholic father and mother with dependency issues, second to his early adulthood where he led a gang of young adults terrorizing a bar and then to recently in the prisoners life where he had become active with violent, militant Nazi sympathizers. Throughout the inmates life, he has displayed a lack of emotion for those around him and works to obtain only pleasure for himself through disruptive acts displaying the traits of Antisocial Personality Disorder. Throughout the series of flashbacks, the doctor begins to understand that the inmate is a danger to society at large and that, if released, would go about using his wits and superficial charm to advance the causes of antisemitism, white supremacy, and autocracy. The doctor recommends that the inmate not be granted parole, despite the fact that by so doing he risks damage to his reputation because outside of his office the inmate is thought to have become a model prisoner. The psychiatric staff decide to parole the prisoner against his recommendation, believing the doctor to be biased against the inmate due to the inmates belief in Nazism. This ends the flashback. When the young psychiatrist asked what happened to the inmate, it is revealed that he later beat a man to death for no reason.
Pressure Point (film)
1962