Agustina has been away at school when she returns home to Madrid to see the mother she hasnt seen in over eight years. Delighted at the visit, Agustinas mother, Elena, is dismayed at her daughters conservative appearance. Elena re-does Agustinas dress, which Agustinas boyfriend, Manolo, disapproves of when he arrives the next day. When Agustinas father Enrique arrives to woo Elena to return to him, he sees that the only way that Manolos parents will approve of his marriage to Agustina is if he can remove Agustina from Elenas influence. He invites Elena to return with him to his ranch, but Elena wishes to remain in Madrid and pursue her opera career. The two live apart so that Enrique can see to his ranch while she pursues her career. Agustina guilts her mother into going to the ranch, and the two, along with a coterie of Elenas friends, as well as Manolo, travel to visit Enrique. The large group quickly makes themselves at home. As the group cavorts scantily clad outfits, Manolo is angered by Agustinas lack of decorum. Agustina leaves in a huff, followed by a friend of her mothers, Juan Manuel, an attaché of the Brazilian Embassy in Madrid. Caught in a storm, the couple seeks shelter in the caretakers cottage on Enriques farm. Meanwhile, Enrique orders Elenas friends to leave his ranch, which they do, however Elena begins to pack to follow them. When Juan and Agustina return to the main house, Juan seeks out Elena to tell her that he has fallen in love with her daughter. Delighted at the news, she embraces him, which is seen by Enrique, who gets the wrong impression and orders Juan from his home. However Juan returns the next morning and proposes to Agustina, she accepts and the two leave on their way to Juans next post in Tokyo. Enrique, realizing his mistaken jealousy, chases after Elena, who is about to board a steamship. Knowing they love one another, but not knowing whether they should return to the ranch or to Madrid, they flip a coin. When it lands in the water, they decide to split their time between the two.
Primavera en otoño
1933