In Regency England, an exotically-dressed woman is found in the fields, speaking a language no-one can understand. She ends up at the home of the Worrall family, the local gentry. Their Greek butler, Frixos, thinks the woman is a fraud from the start. Mr. Worrall sends her to the magistrate to be tried for vagrancy, but Mrs. Worrall agrees to care for her. Mr. Gutch, a local printer and newspaper reporter, takes an interest in the case, especially after the woman claims via mime to be Princess Caraboo. Gutch talks to the farm workers who found her and learns she had a book from the Magdalene Hospital in London on her. When the Worralls leave on a trip the servants inspect her for a tattoo, which they believe all natives of the South Seas have and are shocked to find Princess Caraboo has one on her thigh. Frixos tells Gutch he now thinks she’s a genuine princess. Mr. Worrall uses her presence to recruit investors for the spice trade which will be facilitated by Princess Caraboo when she returns to her native land. Gutch brings in Professor Wilkinson, a linguist who is initially dismissive of Caraboo’s story, but has enough doubt to refuse to say she is a fraud. The local society finds Princess Caraboo fascinating and they flock to attend parties and soirees with her. Mr. Gutch begins investigating people connected with the Magdalene House. Lady Apthorpe takes Caraboo to a ball held for the Prince Regent, who is fascinated by Caraboo. Gutch learns Caraboo is actually Mary Baker, who worked as a servant for Mrs. Peake. Gutch sneaks into the ball to warn her she’s been found out, but she refuses to acknowledge what he tells her. Mrs. Peake comes and confronts Caraboo and identifies her as Mary Baker. She is locked up. The local magistrate and Mr. Worrall want to hang her. Mrs. Worrall gives Mr. Gutch documents implicating her husband and the magistrate in a bank fraud. Mr. Gutch uses these to work a trade. He will bury the story if Mary Baker can go to America. Gutch, who has fallen in love with Mary, leaves with her for the United States.
Princess Caraboo (film)
1994