Usurper Sligon (Primo Carnera), a worshipper of the old Norse god pantheon, along with other rebel Vikings, have forced the exile of the Christian royal family of the Viking kingdom of Scandia: King Aguar (Donald Crisp), his wife, and their son Prince Valiant (Robert Wagner). Aguar and his family come under the protection of King Arthur (Brian Aherne). When Valiant has grown to a man, he is sent to Camelot to undergo training as a knight under the tutelage of Aguars family friend, the noble knight of the Round Table, Sir Gawain (Sterling Hayden). During his wanderings, Valiant witnesses a clandestine meeting between a group of Sligons Vikings and a black-clad knight. He is discovered by the Vikings, but with slyness and improvisation manages to elude his pursuers. During his flight, Valiant runs into Gawain. After Valiant convinces Gawain that he is indeed the son of Aguar, Gawain listens to the princes story of the mysterious Black Knight, a knight who is unknown to the knights of Camelot, and takes Valiant to King Arthur. Arthur decrees that Valiant be trained as a prospective knight by first undergoing the rigors of squirehood. One of the royal knights, Sir Brack (James Mason), takes an extraordinary interest in Valiant and offers to train him, but Valiant is instead assigned to Gawain. Some time later, Sir Brack offers to take Valiant to the place where the young prince has seen the Black Knight in order to backtrack the mysterious figure. Once there, they separate, but shortly afterwards Valiant is ambushed by a group of bowmen and barely escapes with his life and an arrow in his back. He stumbles into the territory of King Luke (Barry Jones) and is taken in by his daughters, Aleta (Janet Leigh) and Ilene (Debra Paget). Upon recovery, Aleta and Valiant fall in love, but King Luke disapproves of Valiants Viking origin and so their relationship must remain a secret for the time being. From Aleta, Valiant also learns that her younger sister Ilene is in love with Sir Gawain. Valiant returns to Camelot and discovers, to his shock, that Gawain, who had grown worried over his squire, had tried to find him and had also run into an ambush by the Black Knight, likewise having escaped within an inch of his life. Noting that Sir Brack had temporarily disappeared around the same time, Valiant becomes suspicious, but on the advice of Gawain he suppresses his suspicion. Some time later, Aleta and Ilene come to Camelot to attend a tournament held in their honor; as an added prize, the winner of this joust will win Aletas hand. Valiant dons the armor of Gawain, who is too seriously wounded to participate, in order to win Aleta, but he fails and is unmasked. But then another contender appears and wins the bout before falling off his horse; this knight turns out to be Sir Gawain himself. Awakening on his sickbed, Gawain beholds Aleta and falls head over heels in love with her, and out of respect for his patron Valiant does not dare tell him the truth. For his act of presumption, Valiant is punished by being confined to his quarters and attending to his master. A mysterious messenger comes to the castle to see Sir Brack, and the same night King Aguars seal is thrown through the window of Sir Gawains chambers and lands at Valiants feet. Realizing that his parents are in trouble, Valiant immediately leaves Camelot, leaving a bewildered Aleta behind. But as he prepares to return to his home, he is ambushed and captured by Sligons Vikings and the Black Knight, who reveals himself as Sir Brack. Brack has made a pact with Sligon; for delivering King Aguars family, Sligon will assist Brack in conquering Camelot and thus becoming the King over Britain. Shortly, Aleta, who is unwilling to let Valiant run off, arrives at the scene and is captured herself, and the two are brought to Thule, where Sligon prepares to execute them and Valiants captured parents. However, a group of Christian Vikings, led by Aguar and Valiants old friend Boltar (Victor McLaglen), stage a revolution, and Boltar infiltrates the castle. Valiant manages to escape his cell and team up with Boltar, who intends to assassinate Sligon and have Valiant give the attack signal to their cohorts once Sligon has fallen. But Valiant is discovered before Boltar manages to kill Sligon, and during his struggle with a guard a false signal is given, which makes the Christian Vikings attack prematurely. Just as things seem bleak, Valiant manages to set fire to several parts of the castle, throwing the defenders into confusion, and is able to slay Sligon in single combat. Some time later, Valiant returns to Camelot with Aleta and accuses Sir Brack of treachery before the king and the assembled Round Table. Sir Brack calls for a trial by combat to the death, and despite Gawains protests and his offer to fight in Valiants stead, the young prince accepts the challenge. After a long and protracted fight, he succeeds in killing the traitor with his fathers mystical broadsword, the Singing Sword. Valiant offers Aleta back to his master, but Gawain stays his hand; during the long period of worry over their loved ones, the older knight has finally come to learn the truth, and he and Ilene have fallen in love. In the end, having redeemed his honor by exposing the traitor, Valiant is made a fully privileged Knight of the Round Table.
Prince Valiant (1954 film)
1954