After Bens divorce from Flo, he and Junior, move from Cold River, Illinois to Mortville, Oregon, a quiet community, as a way to start over. Before they arrive at their new house, Junior sees a girl roller skating on the sidewalk with a balloon. He pops it with his sling shot and laughs at her as he goes by. Ben and Junior arrive at their new house, and moments later, dozens of women line up in their front yard, all of them wanting to date Ben. When Junior starts his first day of third grade, he sees that Igor Peabody (Gilbert Gottfried), the adoption agent from the first film, happens to be the principal of his new school. Igor panics at the sight of Junior and promptly promotes him to the sixth grade. There Junior meets Murph (Eric Edwards), the school bully whos incapable of learning, and gets on his bad side when he tapes him to the chalkboard. Murph retaliates by trying to drop the schools satellite dish on Junior, but it misses him and hits Ben instead, knocking him out. When he comes to, he sees school nurse Annie Young and becomes smitten with her. Junior, annoyed at Bens sudden love interest, retaliates by attempting to draw a mustache on Annies picture hanging in the hall, only to be foiled by Trixie (Ivyann Schwan), the girl whose balloon he popped earlier. Throughout the film, they engage in an escalating prank war. Ben decides to date again to find a new wife and mother, but Junior is against it. His first date is with Debbie Claukinski (Charlene Tilton) a divorced woman whose ex-husband, Voytek (Zach Grenier) is a slob, eats dog food, and is insanely jealous. Ben hires a babysitter named Rhoda to look after Junior. Unfortunately, she is an irresponsible slob who eats junk food and watches a TV documentary on pigs. After she insults Junior, he calls Voytek and tells him about Debbies date, causing him to storm the restaurant where she and Ben are. Voytek gets into a fight with Ben, but this only causes Debbie to have a change of heart about him. Back at the house, Rhodas scuzzy boyfriend shows up on his motorcycle and they decide to have sex in the master bedroom. Junior uses Bens video camera to surreptitiously record them doing so, and puts on a movie showcase on the front of the house for the whole neighborhood to see. While Ben is driving home, Debbie and Voytek make out ferociously in the back seat, and Ben sees several cars parked in his driveway, along with the whole neighborhood watching Rhoda and her boyfriend having sex. He is shocked and reminds Junior theyre new in the neighborhood and they needed to attempt to fit in. Afterward, Bens father, Big Ben Healy (Jack Warden) and his dog, Nippy, arrive to live with them after losing all of his money in a bad investment. Bens second date is with Emily (Martha Quinn), and Junior rewires the doorbell and she gets electrocuted. Ben is shocked at her appearance, and she falls face first onto the ground after Ben closes the door. Around the same time, LaWanda DuMore (Laraine Newman), the richest, snootiest, kid-hating lady in Mortville, takes an interest in Ben, much to Juniors chagrin. While Ben and Junior are gone for the day, she redecorates the house to impress Ben. Junior ruins a dinner she makes by putting live cockroaches in the food. Afterwards, she tells him that when she is his mother she will send him to boarding school in Baghdad. He tries to tell Ben this, but he refuses to believe him, saying hes no longer credible. While at a school function, Ben sees the puppet show go awry. He stops it but is surprised to see it was Trixie ruining it. It is also revealed that Annie is her mother. Annie rushes to take her home: Ben tries to tell her he understands what it is like raising a problem child and thinks they can help one another. She tells him she likes him, but if they date, Trixies behavior would only get worse. He proposes to LaWanda believing she is the only woman who will marry him. By a chance meeting in a pizza restaurant, Ben, Annie, Junior, and Trixie dine together and have a good time, even after the food fight that the kids start with Igor and his girlfriend gets them thrown out. Junior and Trixie apologize and decide their parents should date. He tries to stop the wedding by switching LaWandas blood sample with that of a rabid dog. While celebrating her engagement to Ben, she gets cake icing on her face, which bears a striking resemblance to foaming at the mouth (a symptom of rabies). As a result, she is handcuffed by animal control officers and sent to the hospital for observation. At the altar, Trixie shows up operating a bulldozer with the Love Rock and LaWanda gets trapped underneath it. Ben tells Annie shes the one he really wants, and tells Big Ben to marry LaWanda himself, which he does. Junior uses his sling shot with Trixies firecracker, causing the cake to blast off and land on LaWanda and Big Ben.
Problem Child 2
1991