The story is told in flashbacks set during a 1945 testimony that William Moulton Marston gives to representatives of the Child Study Association of America. William and his wife Elizabeth teach and work on their research at Harvard and Radcliffe Colleges in 1928, when William hires one of his students, Olive Byrne (daughter of Ethel Byrne and niece of Margaret Sanger – two famous suffragists and feminists of the 20th century) as a research assistant. Olive aids in the Marstons work in inventing the lie detector and conducting research on Williams DISC theory on human interactions, and the three soon grow close. One after another tests by the lie detector reveal that they have fallen in love with one another, and they begin to engage in a polyamorous relationship. As words about their unconventional relationship gets out, the Marstons are fired from the university. Olive reveals that she is pregnant and moves in with the Marstons shortly after. They decide to build a family together and create a fabrication to keep secret the nature of their relationship. The family settle in a New York suburb, happily together. Both Elizabeth and Olive bear children by William, telling the neighbors that Olive is a widow and taken in by the Marstons. William starts trying to make a living as an author. Elizabeth takes a job as a secretary and becomes the main breadwinner of the family. Olive stays at home and takes care of the kids, occasionally submitting her writing samples to publishers. They raise their four children together, and Elizabeth names her daughter after Olive. William stumbles upon a shop run by Charles Guyette, who introduces him to fetish art themed comics and photos. The art captures Williams imagination as a demonstration of his DISC theory. Elizabeth initially disapproves of the art, but she relents during a presentation wherein Olive tries out an outfit that later would be the prototype for Wonder Womans costume. After finding limited work as a writer, Marston comes up with the idea of creating a female Amazonian super-heroine for comic book. The comic would feature his ideas on DISC theory, drawing inspiration from the Marstons work on the lie detector as well as Elizabeth and Olive in real life, and intend to support the feminist movement to further equal rights for women through a populist medium. He pitches his ideas to Max Gaines, then publisher at National Periodical Publications (today DC Comics), who ultimately accepts the comic and suggests simplifying the female superheros name to "Wonder Woman." "Wonder Woman" is an instant hit, leading to prosperity for the Marstons/Byrne family. However, one day, their neighbor Mary wanders into their home by coincidence and walks into the three having sex. This incident leads to their children getting bullied and asked to leave school. Worried about their children being attacked and ostracized, and thinking they have no other choice, Elizabeth reluctantly demands Olive to leave the household with her children. At the same time, the "Wonder Woman" comic gets growing accusations of featuring overtly sexual, sadomasochistic, and lesbian imagery that lead to the testimony. Leaving the testimony, William collapses and is rushed to the hospital. Learning that he is dying of cancer, William asks Olive to see him and Elizabeth again, trying to help them reconcile. William persuades Elizabeth to submit to Olive as she should not always dominate in their relationship. The Marstons get on their knees and beg for Olives forgiveness, and Elizabeth tearfully admits that she cannot live without Olive. She eventually agrees to come back to them. Epilogue text reveals that after William died, Elizabeth and Olive continued to live together for another 38 years until Olives death in 1985, and Elizabeth lived to be 100. It also notes that sexual imagery disappeared from the "Wonder Woman" comic after Williams death, along with Wonder Womans super powers. Wonder Woman was finally reclaimed by famous activist Gloria Steinem in 1972, when she put the character on the cover of the first issue of Ms. Magazine as the quintessential symbol of female empowerment. The credits conclude that "Wonder Woman remains the most famous female superhero of all time."
Professor Marston and the Wonder Women
2017