Glory Eden (Ginger Rogers) is the "Purity Girl" of the Ippsie Wippsie Hour radio program. The shows sponsor, Sam Ipswich (Gregory Ratoff), discovered the orphan and made her a star in three months. He needs her public image to match her pure radio persona to promote Ippsie Wippsie, "the washcloth of queens". However, Glory longs to be a party girl, going out to nightclubs, drinking, dancing, meeting men and having a good time. All she can do is listen with envy to what her African-American maid Vera (Theresa Harris) does in Harlem after work. Ipswich is anxious for her to sign a new contract, but she throws a tantrum and refuses, as it explicitly prohibits all the things she wants to do. Along with everything else she has missed out on, she wants a sweetheart. Speed Dennis (Frank McHugh), Ipswichs press agent, considers this a great idea. He thinks the man should be "Anglo-Saxon" (to appeal to the corn belt), while Herbert (Franklin Pangborn), Glorys dressmaker, insists he be under 25. Ipswichs secretary tells them that the "purest Anglo-Saxons" hail from the hills of Kentucky, so Glory picks a fan letter at random from those written by young Kentucky men and ends up with 23-year-old Jim Davey (Norman Foster). She likes the enclosed photo of him. Ipswich, Speed and Herbert want her to choose someone else, but when "sob sister" reporter Elmerada de Leon (ZaSu Pitts) comes to interview Glory, she spots the photo, so they have to play along. Speed goes to Kentucky and persuades the reluctant rural hick to accept a ten-day stay in New York. When he arrives, the press expects him to marry her, so Speed prompts the bashful Jim into romancing Glory. The wedding is conducted on-air. Kelsey (Edgar Kennedy) assigns OConnor (Allen Jenkins) to try steal Glory away for his own radio program, sponsored by the Kelsey Dish Rag Company. OConnor offers Jim help to slip away with Glory for a private honeymoon in Atlantic City, away from the press. Naive, Jim is stunned when he finds out that OConnor is doing all this just to get Glory to sign with Kelsey and that the marriage is just a publicity stunt. At first, Jim insists that Glory wants to retire from show business and settle down, but when she learns the Kelsey contract has no restrictions on how she lives her life, she is eager to sign. Jim decides to take matters into his own hands, taking his wife home to rural Kentucky. At first, Glory is miffed, but the couple settle their differences (after a spanking and a punch to the jaw). As they are settling into country life, Speed arrives, but is unable to persuade Glory to return. He comes up with an idea. He gets Ipswich to let Vera sing as the Purity Girl that night. His plan backfires. Glory does become jealous, as he intended, but OConnor is present, and she signs his contract. When the couple go to New York, Jim refuses to let his wife perform without him. Speed has hired him for Ippsie Wippsie as a poet. To solve the problem, the two sponsors join forces, merging their companies to form Ippsie-Kelsey Clothies, and have the young couple perform together.
Professional Sweetheart
1933