Trapped in Hell, murderous prom queen Mary Lou Maloney (Courtney Taylor), who burned to death in 1957, manages to escape her chains by severing them with a nail file. Returning to her place of death, Hamilton High School, Mary Lou kills the school janitor and one of her many former boyfriends Jack Roswell (Terry Doyle) by electrocuting him with a jukebox to the point that his pacemaker bursts from his chest. The day after Jacks death, Principal Weatherall (Roger Dunn), officially opens Hamilton Highs recently reconstructed gymnasium, accidentally severing one of his own fingers while cutting the ribbon with a pair of scissors, an act which prompts an unseen force to wreak havoc through the gym with powerful winds. Hours after the gymnasium opening largely average student Alexander Grey (Tim Conlon), who dreams of going to medical school, leaves a date with his girlfriend Sarah Monroe (Cynthia Preston) to get his textbooks from school to study for an upcoming test, having been told by snarky guidance counselor Ms. Richards (Lesley Kelly) that his grades mean he will never reach medical school and be left to do little more than menial labor. While in the school, Alex is approached by Mary Lou, and the two ultimately have sex on the American flag in a hallway. Waking up, Alex redresses and, throughout the day, Mary Lou appears to him, both during his biology test and during a football game, which Mary Lou helps Alex win, much to the anger of Alexs rival Andrew Douglas (Dylan Neal). With Mary Lous help, Alexs grades skyrocket and he makes the honor roll and becomes a football star, though his secret romance with Mary Lou also strains his relationship with Sarah. After Mary Lou burns Ms. Richards to death with battery acid after the counselor becomes suspicious of Alexs grades, Alex, having received a motorcycle and leather jacket from his parents as gifts for his achievements in school, buries Ms. Richards’s body in the football field. After disposing of Ms. Richards, Alex is confronted by Andrew, who had earlier kicked him off the football team, and the two get into a fight, which ends when Mary Lou kills Andrew by impaling him to the football goal post by hurling a football, which changes into a spinning drill in mid-flight, at him. Growing tired of Mary Lous murders and her obsession over him, Alex tries to break things off with Mary Lou, which enrages the ghost. Trying to go on with his life after dumping Mary Lou, Alex tries to patch things up with Sarah by asking her to the prom inaugurating the new gym, only to learn she is going with nerdy Leonard Welsh (Jeremy Ratchford). Finding himself stalked by Mary Lou, Alex tells his best friend Shane Taylor (David Stratton) everything, which prompts Mary Lou to kill Shane by ripping his heart out. Shanes death is then blamed on Alex, who Shanes parents see fleeing from their house with blood on his hands. Tracked down to his house, Alex is arrested and put in jail. While in his cell, Alex is approached by Mary Lou who, after Alex rejects her once more, leaves to kill Sarah, electrocuting a pair of officers and leaving behind the keys to Alexs cell, which Alex uses to escape. As Alex races to the prom, forcing Officer Larry (Brock Simpson) to drive him there at gunpoint, Sarah is attacked by Mary Lou, who had killed Leonard by wrapping him in magnetic tape. Reaching the gymnasium as Mary Lou is about to kill Sarah on stage, Alex willingly goes to Hell with Mary Lou, making her promise that if he goes with her she will leave everyone else alone. As Mary Lou and Alex descend into the ground, Sarah follows them, jumping into the portal before it closes. After fighting off zombified versions of Shane, Leonard and Andrew in a nightmarish version of Hamilton High with a makeshift flamethrower, Sarah tracks Alex down to Hells equivalent of Hamilton Highs gym. There she sees Mary Lou about to kill Alex so he can be her prom king for all eternity. Sarah interrupts and, after a brief fight with her, manages to blow up Mary Lou by using her flamethrower as a bomb. Alex and Sarah make their way to a garage in the school and hotwire a car. Upon seeing a charred Mary Lou in the way, Alex drives into her and they disappear, reappearing on a street out of Hell. Believing the event to be over, Alex and Sarah, drive to a diner to contact their parents. However, Mary Lou reappears as well and drives her arm through Sarah, killing her. While Alex tries to get others around him to help, he realizes he is in the 1950s where everyone around him apparently cannot see or hear him. Losing the last of his sanity, he admits defeat to Mary Lou and is left laughing hysterically.
Prom Night III: The Last Kiss
1990