After 22 years in a mental institution, Norman Bates has been cured of his insanity and accepted that his mother is dead. As such, the court has him released. Lila Loomis, sister of Marion Crane, vehemently protests, but her plea is dismissed. Against the advice of Dr. Bill Raymond, Norman takes up residence in his old home behind the Bates Motel. He reports to a prearranged job at a nearby diner, run by an old lady named Emma Spool. After work, a young waitress at the diner, Mary Samuels, has been thrown out of her boyfriends place. Norman offers to let her stay at the motel, then extends the offer to his home when he discovers that the motels new manager, Warren Toomey, has been using the motel for dealing drugs and other sleazy activities. He immediately fires Toomey. Normans adjustment back into society appears to be going well until he begins to get mysterious notes from "Mother" at the house and diner. Phone calls come from someone claiming to be Normans mother. The next day, a drunk Toomey picks a fight at the diner. Norman suspects Toomey of making the notes and phone calls. Becoming increasingly sympathetic to and impressed by Normans fight to keep his sanity, Mary takes up permanent residence in a guest room at his house. A figure in a black dress stabs Toomey to death as he is packing to leave the motel. As Norman is renovating his motel, he hears voices in the house. He enters his mothers bedroom to find it exactly as it was 22 years ago. A sound lures him to the attic, where he is locked in. A teenage couple sneaks in through the cellar window to make out. They notice a female figure pacing in the next room. As they try to climb out, the boy is stabbed to death. The girl escapes and alerts police. Mary finds Norman in the attic and he shows her his mothers bedroom, only to find it back to its state of disuse. The sheriff arrives and questions them about the boys murder. Mary claims they were out walking together at the time. After the sheriff leaves, Norman rebukes her for lying. He fears he may have killed the boy, since Mary told him the attic was unlocked when she found him. That evening, Mary and Norman find a bloody article of clothing that has been stuffed down the toilet. Norman is horrified, believing he committed another murder, but Mary insists he is innocent. Mary goes down to check the motel. In the parlor she is surprised by Lila, who is Marys mother. Lila and Mary have been making the phone calls and notes, even posing at the window dressed as Norma Bates. Mary altered Normas room and locked Norman in the attic so she could change it back. All of this was an attempt to drive Norman insane again and have him recommitted. However, Marys growing friendship with Norman has made her convinced he is no longer capable of killing. She suspects someone else is in the house, pointing out that Norman was locked in the attic at the time of the boys death. Dr. Raymond discovers Marys identity as Lilas daughter and tells Norman that Mary and Lila must be the ones harassing him. He also has the corpse of Norma Bates exhumed, to prove Norman is not being haunted by his mother. Norman is only partially convinced, saying the one behind everything must be his "real mother", despite there being no record of him being adopted. Norman confronts Mary with what Dr. Raymond told him. She says that she has given up her part in Lilas ruse, but Lila will not stop. Later, Norman becomes too terrified to leave his room, saying he saw his real mother in the house. Mary admits to Norman that his sanity is beginning to erode and stays to comfort him. While Lila is retrieving her "Mother" costume from a loose stone in the cellar floor, a figure steps out of the shadows and murders her. Meanwhile, the police dredge the swamp and find a car, with Toomeys body in the trunk. Mary runs to the house to try to convince Norman to flee. The phone rings, Norman answers, and starts speaking to "Mother". Mary listens in; nobody is on the line with Norman. While Norman debates with "Mother" about her command to kill Mary, Mary runs into the cellar and dresses up as Mother, complete with butcher knife, in an unsuccessful bid to get Norman to "hang up". Dr. Raymond grabs her from behind, thinking he has caught her in the act of trying to drive Norman insane, and in her fright Mary plunges the butcher knife into his heart. Confronted by the sight of "Mother" standing over Dr. Raymonds bloody corpse, Normans sanity snaps and he advances upon Mary, babbling. Mary backs into the fruit cellar and stumbles upon Lilas body, buried in a pile of coal. Assuming Norman is responsible, Mary raises her knife to kill him but is shot dead by the incoming police. The ensuing investigation is inconclusive, but in light of an overheard argument between Mary and Lila, Marys attempt to kill Norman, and her dressing as Norma Bates, the police deduce Mary most likely committed all the murders. That evening, Emma Spool, the diner manager, visits Norman. Spool believes herself to be his real mother, saying that Mrs. Bates was her sister, who adopted Norman as an infant while Spool was institutionalized. She reveals that she was the murderer, having killed anybody who tried to harm her son. In response, Norman strikes her in the head with a shovel, killing her. He then begins pretending she is Norma Bates, carrying the body upstairs to Mothers room, and insinuating in Mothers voice that he will resume killing young women who stay at the motel.
Psycho II (film)
1983