Steven Gold (Hanks) is a struggling medical student who moonlights as a stand-up comedian. It quickly becomes evident that he is lousy at the former and excels at the latter. And yet, when he is given a chance at the big time, he cracks under the pressure. Lilah (Field) is a dedicated housewife who yearns to be a comic. She has the raw talent but does not have the command of craft that Steven possesses. At first, he doesnt give Lilah the time of day. Steven is derailed by the unexpected appearance of his father and brother, both medical professionals. Lilahs unfailing support wins Stevens affections and he teaches her the fundamentals of stand-up comedy. Lilah has spent her cookie jar money to buy jokes. Steven advises her to connect with the audience to unveil the honest humor in her life as a wife and mother. Lilah discovers her natural gift of making people laugh. An uneasy friendship develops between the two as they share the personal conflicts they must resolve: Stevens desire to make it big vs. his inability to do so and Lilahs love of comedy vs. her love for her family. Steven, beginning to appear emotionally unstable, develops a romantic attraction to Lilah - to her dismay. Lilah struggles to remain loyal to her family and her friend, while maintaining her conviction and love of comedy. Steven mimes a painful rendition of Gene Kellys famous dance routine from Singin in the Rain. The film culminates in a competition at the "Gas Station" comedy club where Steven, Lilah and other aspiring comedians have been performing. A judges panel of television executives promise the winner a prime time opportunity and possible stardom. As they compete on stage, the characters also grapple with conflicts among their desires for success on stage, their loyalties to one another, and the expectations of their families. Pending the judges final tally, with a note of support from her husband in her hand, and hearing Steven has only two of the five judges votes, Lilah withdraws "in case the winner is me" and persists in leaving when the club owner reveals she was in fact the winner. She leaves with her husband who, after watching his wife do stand-up for the first time, is won over and begins suggesting ideas for her next set. The pair walk away arm in arm reminiscing about the funny and endearing sayings of their children. Inside, Steven is declared the winner of the show, which reflects Lilahs judgment and that of their competing fellow comics.
Punchline (film)
1988