Jerry sees a sack of puppies thrown into a nearby river and rescues them. Most of them run away, but a very friendly and energetic puppy licks Jerry and attempts to follow him home. Jerry tries to scare the pup, but the pup follows him. Jerry then grabs a stick and pretends to play fetch with the pup. However, Jerry accidentally throws the stick into the river, which results the pup hanging on the side of the hill. The puppy whines in fear and almost falls into the river. Jerry saves him and lets him in. The pup drinks an asleep Toms milk and Jerry hides him, pretending he did it. Tom chases Jerry, but soon sees the pup is drinking his milk. Tom cannot stop the pup drinking his milk, and when Tom picks up the pup, the pup licks him, much to Toms annoyance. Tom puts the pup outside, but Jerry scoops him up and puts him inside a drawer. However, the pup immediately escapes and sleeps on Toms bed, taking the cats blanket. Tom takes the blanket and throws the pup outside, where the pup falls into a bottle. Jerry pulls the pup out by the waist using windowsill string and again gets licked, but is met by Tom soon after, who also gets licked. Tom chases Jerry, carrying the pup, around the kitchen, until he trips them up with a sponge and they careen out the door. Tom goes to sleep, but then he feels bad over the way he mercilessly kicked out the mouse and pup as a thunderstorm hits. His conscience starts pricking him and he imagines both Jerry and the pup being washed away in the flood. A worried Tom ventures out in the thunderstorm to find Jerry and the pup (who are both safely sleeping together in a drain using a newspaper as a blanket) but he himself gets blown away by the wind and nearly drowns in the river. Jerry and the pup come to Toms rescue and drag Tom out of the river. Jerry heats up a can of soup and feeds it to the unconscious Tom, but when it fails to wake him, the puppy licks him and he awakens. Tom gives the pup his own bed and a bowl of milk. The puppy calls his siblings and they share the milk as Tom and Jerry look on happily.
Puppy Tale
1953