Set in New Mexico around the turn of the 20th century and told in flashback, the film tells the story of Jeb Rand (Mitchum), whose entire family was slaughtered when he was a child. In the aftermath of the massacre Jeb is found by Mrs Callum, a widow, who raises him in her family. Traumatised by the killings, Jeb does not recall anything of that night, except for vague images that he sees in a frequent nightmare. Mrs Callum raises him as her own son, together with her daughter Thor and her son Adam. Years later Jeb is shot at while riding a colt, but the shooter misses him; although Mrs Callum blames the incident on deer hunters she knows that it was an attempted murder by her brother-in-law Grant. She confronts Grant and it is revealed that Jebs father took the life of Mrs Callums husband, and Grant was the one who killed Jebs parents in an act of revenge and swore to kill Jeb when he was old enough. Mrs Callum pleads with Grant to leave Jeb alone, reasoning that he is not a threat to anyone. Grant agrees to let Jeb live but only to prove that when he is old enough, he will turn on Callum. Years later Jeb, Adam and Thor are adults and one day law officials arrive to recruit volunteers to join the US Army to fight the Spaniards. Jeb and Adam are told that one of them must join and, after agreeing on a coin toss, Jeb loses and signs up. He is injured in battle and while recuperating in hospital experiences his flashbacks to the night of his familys murder once again. Due to his injuries he is honourably discharged from the army and sent home and awarded the Medal of Honor. Although adoptive brother and sister, Jeb and Thor have long been in love, and after his homecoming celebration Jeb tried to convince Thor to run away with him and get married as soon as possible as he suspects that someone, or something, is following him. Thor refuses, saying that she wants to get married on her own terms and not out of fear. Jeb goes for a long horse ride in order to clear his head and stumbles upon an abandoned ranch which he suspects he has seen before. His mother confirms that the ranch is indeed where he and his real parents lived when Jeb was a child and the same ranch where they were murdered. In order to earn money so he can provide for himself and Thor, Jeb plans to take his share of his inheritance and gamble at a casino. Adam expresses anger at the fact that Jeb is listed in their mothers will to receive the same amount of money as he and Thorwill upon her death, despite Jeb leaving the ranch to fight in the war and Adam continuing to work faithfully on the ranch. Jeb has a big win at the casino and the owner, Jake Dingle, offers him a partnership.bMeanwhile Adam has researched Jebs past and knows about his murderous parents and their subsequent deaths. Still furious about their financial situation, Adam attempts to kill Jeb on his way back from the casino but is killed by Jsb in self-defence. Jeb is acquitted of the murder in court but is shunned by Thor and Mrs Callum, who states that Jeb is dead to him. With no family, job or home of his own, Jeb accepts Jake Dingles offer and becomes part-owner of the casino. Months later at the town dance Jeb discovers that Thor is engaged to a man named Prentice. Grant alerts Prentice to what Jeb did to Thors brother and convinces him to make an attempt on Jebs life. Prentice tries to ambush Jeb on his way home but is gunned down by Jeb acting in self-defence. Some time later Thor and Mrs Callum hatch a plan to gain revenge on Jeb for the pain he has caused them. Thor pretends to forgive Jeb and agrees to marry him, planning to murder him on their wedding night. On the night in question she cannot bring herself to carry out the murder and reconciles with Jeb, somehow knowing in her heart that he is innocent and that he truly loves her. Tired of waiting, Grant rounds up a gang and they chase Jeb across the desert, intending to finish the job he started all those years ago. Jeb finally recalls the night of his parents murder, realising it was Grant who killed them and that Mrs Callum was there too. It is revealed that Mrs Callum had an affair with Jebs father and, when her husband discovered it, he attempted to murder him but was killed in self-defence, resulting in Grant slaughtering Jebs entire family to avenge his brothers death. On learning that Jeb survived the slaughter Mrs Calluma adopted him out of guilt. Thor pleads with her mother not to allow Jeb to be hanged, stating there is still time to make up for her actions. As Grant is about to hang Jeb, Mrs Callum shoots him dead. She asks for and receives forgiveness from Jeb and Thor, and advises them to look to the future and enjoy their lives together.
Pursued
1947