This film opens with a bank robbery during which a bank guard, in attempting to wrest a pistol from one of the two robbers, is shot and killed by the robbers accomplice. We next see Lona McLane (Kim Novak), a young woman, alone, in a mink coat, leave a movie theatre and walk to her car. When she tries to start it, it wont turn over, but almost immediately Paul Sheridan (Fred MacMurray) appears at her window to offer his assistance. He spends the evening with her as they call a mechanic, stop for a drink at a bar, repair to his apartment, and, presumably, have sex while waiting for her car to be fixed. In the morning, Sheridan appears at his office, a police precinct, where we discover he is a cop who has been dispatched to see what he can find out from Miss McLane, the erstwhile girlfriend of Harry Wheeler (Paul Richards), a man previously known to the police and identified as the principal bank robber. Sheridan is presented as an honest cop who, along with his partner Rick McAllister (Phillip Carey) and a number of his other associates, has been tasked by his boss, Police Lieutenant Karl Eckstrom (E.G. Marshall), to recover the stolen $200,000 and to capture Wheeler alive so the police will be able to find out from him who his accopplice is. Among Sheridans other associates is Paddy Dolan (Allen Nourse), who has a drinking problem but is well-liked and nearing retirement. As such hes in danger of losing his pension if he screws up again, and Lt. Eckstrom has asked Sheridan to watch out for him so that he doesnt screw up. He and other officers maintain 24-hour surveillance on Lona McLane in her apartment from a stakeout apartment they rent, conveniently, across the courtyard and from the drivers seat of a car parked outside the apartment building. Sheridan quickly falls for Lona, who, when she figures out from his manner and his questions about Wheeler that hes a cop, is at first furious, but quickly melts in Sheridans arms, professing her love for him. She then tries to persuade him to kill Wheeler so the two can take off with the loot. At first he seems insulted and angrily resists—hes been an honest cop— but also because he now believes hes the one being used. He orders her to leave his apartment where they have met for an assignation. Sheridan then is shown to brood, in hallways and in his apartment stakeout, smoking cigarette after cigarette, as, one gathers, he mulls over the proposition Lona has made him. After a bit he caves and they meet in the basement of the building where he agrees to mastermind Wheelers murder and the theft of the banks money. Meanwhile, Sheridans associate, Rick McAllister, has been watching through his binoculars not only Lona in her apartment but also a woman in the apartment next door, who turns out to be a nurse, Ann Stewart (Dorothy Malone). Rick has become fascinated, perhaps infatuated with her as she bustles about the house hanging drapes and doing calisthenics, but Rick only admits to feeling paternal towards her. At all events, as Sheridans plot unfolds, things go awry. Suffrice it to say, losing contact with Lona he goes to her apartment to look for her. Shes not there but Miss Stewart, whos having a little party next door, goes to Lonas apartment to ask to borrow some ice. Just as shes about to knock, Sheridan opens the door to leave and encounters Miss Stewart. He rudely refuses her request and quickly closes the door, but she has clearly seen him and will no doubt remember him. The denoument is intricate and cleverly constructed. Naturally, other things go awry. As planned, Wheeler shows up, betrayed by Lona, and is nabbed by Sheridan but, because Paddy wasnt at his post as he should have been, Sheridan, who has agreed to hide Paddys dereliction of duty, now has Paddy in tow. Sheridan and Paddy force Wheeler to take them to Wheelers car where hes stowed the bag of money in the trunk. As Paddy leans in the trunk to inspect the bag, Sheridan pushes Wheeler onto Paddy and shoots Wheeler dead, claiming to Paddy that he had no choice since Wheeler had jumped Paddy and swift action was necessary. Paddys no dummy and figures out that Sheridan is not protecting Paddy just because he wants to save Paddys pension but also because he wants the $200,000. Paddy, though a screw-up, is eminently honest and vows to tell the lieutenant what has transpired, which would at this point only mean Sheridan wouldnt get the money. When Sheridan moves across the front seat to prevent Paddy from opening the car door, Paddy pulls his pistol. Theres a struggle and Paddy is shot in the stomach and killed. Not long thereafter Miss Stewart, taking out the garbage, has another chance encounter in the hall with Sheridan, whom she recognizes, and goes back to her apartment to call the police. Sheridan manages to force Miss Stewart and Lona, who has now returned, to accompany him to Wheelers car where he believes the money still resides. Does he make it? Almost all the action takes place at night, in the rain, in cars driving on the streets of some city (never identified), and in the U-shaped apartment building where Lona and Ann Stewart live and where the cops have their stakeout. Theres an almost incredible amount of cigarette smoking going on, and all love-making is implied. The plot is intricate but relatively easy to follow and almost believable, were in not for the fact that in 1954 crime movies had to end in such a way as not to suggest crime pays.
Pushover (film)
1954