Tom chases Jerry into a dog pound and the dogs expel Tom. Jerry, sitting on Spikes back, taunts Tom. Tom notices a dog statue and steals the head. He walks like a dog and sneaks into the dog pound, but loses the head. He attempts to pull it out when Spike notices him. Tom puts himself back under the head and barks. Spike turns and walks away. Tom frees the head and Jerry sneaks up behind him and imitates barking. Tom is startled and almost claws through the wall before he sees the mouse and chases Jerry, spotting him in a bone-hat. Tom bolts after him, and Jerry hides. Convinced that the end of the dog bone nearby is Jerry in disguise, Tom grabs it and is met by an angry Spike. As Spike chomps down, Tom causes Spike to swallow his bone and hides underneath a huge St. Bernard, which goes to sleep and Tom pops out from under it without the dog head. Tom wakes the dog and is hanging from the collar. Tom attaches the head to his rear and pops out again, waking the dog again. The dog sees Toms head, but Tom switches ends and leaves. Tom hides in a barrel and notices Jerry is doing the same. He breaks open the barrel and chases Jerry until Jerry hides in another dogs fur. Jerry swims in the fur and gets Tom to dive in. This wakes up the dog and he scratches both cat and mouse out of his fur. Jerry stops, trips Tom, and gains the dog head for himself. Spike comes around the corner and briefly sees Toms real head, but Tom quickly hides it. Jerry leaves and Spike (now looking quite frightened) looks at Toms apparently headless body, which cheerfully waves at him then waddles off after its head. This proves to be the last straw for poor Spike, who emits a terrified, womanlike scream heard in Fraidy Cat. Tom waddles after his "head", but fails to spot the pole in his way and bumps into it, returning to normal. Seeing dog ears like the ones on the dog head in a nearby barrel, Tom grabs them and is met with an angry yellow dog. Tom ties up his mouth with his own collar and runs away. Tom sees Jerry follow the path close to him and prepares to seize him; unfortunately, Spike is also coming around the corner. Tom grabs Spike and tries to fit him over his head. When he cant move after a few steps, Tom realizes something is up and sees the dog chomping at him. Tom hides behind a wall and spots Jerry/head. In his path, though, is a long dog akin to a train stop. The dog apparently has two heads, until Jerry reveals himself and sticks his tongue out at Tom, only to run into the dogs house. Jerry dashes off and Tom traps him, but soon realizes thats his means of disguise and sticks it over his head just as Spike arrives. Jerry raises the head and turns the head in an effort to expose Tom until Spike lifts the head himself, whereupon Tom covers all of himself (except his feet) with the head and waddles off. Tom lifts the head and whacks himself in an effort to flatten Jerry, but causes a bump on his head. Tom can no longer hide himself when Spike comes around, and finally sees through Toms disguise, with Jerry clearing it up by holding up a sign with the words "Yes, stupid, its a cat!" and the jig is up. When Spike see through the truth, he lets out a roar like a buffalo roar and leaps into the air for the sake of revenge. Tom panics and tunnels into the ground in an attempt to escape, but Spike digs him up with his large jaws. The chase wakes up all the other dogs, who join the chase. Tom is chased to the top of a pole and Jerry with dog head starts barking at Tom. The others stop barking as they now hear Jerry. He loses the head, but retrieves it, and continues barking at Tom.
Puttin' on the Dog
1944