Mike Brennan, a tough, crude, decorated NYPD detective lieutenant, has a hidden dark side as well as a partnership with certain figures of organized crime. Brennan shoots and kills a small-time Puerto Rican criminal and then threatens witnesses to testify that he acted in self-defense. The Head of the District Attorneys Homicide Bureau, Kevin Quinn assigns the case to Deputy District Attorney Aloysius "Al" Francis Reilly, a young lawyer with a past as a police officer and the son of an NYPD cop who was killed in the line of duty. Reilly collects Brennans deposition, who claims to have been acting on a tip from an informant and was forced to shoot in self-defense. Reillys case leads him to a Puerto Rican crime boss called "Bobby Tex," Texador, whose wife Nancy Bosch was once the love of Reillys life. She ended their relationship years ago after interpreting Als reaction of surprise as racist when she introduced him to her father, a black man. Al tries to rekindle their past romance, but she rejects him because with Bobby, she feels loved, protected and accepted. Al, along with detectives Sam "Chappie" Chapman and Luis Valentin, has doubts about the dynamics of the event, knowing the environment of the Puerto Rican underworld. Investigations reveal a link between Quinn and Brennan, while the latter goes on the trail of Roger "the dodger" Montalvo, the only witness who can disprove his testimony of self-defense. Brennan tries threatening Valentin and offering to bribe Chappie for help in finding Montalvo and shutting him up. Meanwhile, Bobby Tex is "invited" by the Mafia to step aside as a drug dealer, as Brennans support is still useful to them. Bobby, in turn, begins looking for Montalvo to use as leverage against Brennan. At the same time he begins to shut down his business in order to retire to private life with Nancy in Puerto Rico. Bobby finds Montalvo before Brennan, and together they leave for Puerto Rico, where the smuggler owns a mansion and a yacht. Here he is joined by Al, called secretly to give him an important information about the case. Al, after informing Chief Deputy District Attorney Bloomenfeld, he goes to the island, where it is revealed that Quinn nicknamed "Skinny") was once part of Bobbys street gang, and participated in a murder by shooting a rival gang member. Brennan appears to be hunting down all of the gangs former members on Quinns orders, with the intention of erasing Quinns past to fulfill Quinns political ambitions to run for the office if NY State Attorney General. Brennan is forced to go along with it because Quinn is holding an abuse of authority charge over him. Even the Mafia intends to close accounts with both Bobby and Brennan, whose position is becoming increasingly untenable. They fail in an attempt to kill Bobby, who has announced his retirement. Meanwhile, Brennan is able to find Montalvos lover, the transgender José Malpica, and using a voice message from Roger that he is "on a boat chalked the Nancy in Puerto Rico) then kills Malpica after listening to a message from Montalvo on his answering machine that reveals his location. Brennan finds Roger and strangles him. He then slices the boats fuel line and waits for Bobby to arrive. A phone call made by Al saves Nancy at the last moment, but Bobby is killed in the subsequent explosion. Al procures an arrest warrant for Brennan but fails to catch him at the airport. He returns to the DAs office to find Brennan waiting for him. Brennan reveals the truth about Als father; that he was a bagman and bigot, who was sort of a "line" to keep minorities down, and shoots Chappie when he tries to intervene. Brennan is then shot dead by another officer. Al is summoned by Quinn, who informs him that he is aware of his activities, but the Department is going to hush up the incident to avoid embarrassment in the years upcoming mayoral election. When Al threatens to go to the papers, Bloomenfeld tells him that he has ways of preventing that too, and in turn reminds Al that sources in the Mayors office could leak evidence of misconduct on the part of his late father, which would deny his mother her widows service pension. Feeling betrayed and disillusioned, Al trashes his desk and office and resigns from the DAs office. He searches for Nancy, hoping she will return to him but when he finds her in Puerto Rico, she replies to his questions about getting back together for a possible marriage only with silence as she is mourning Bobbys death.
Q&A (film)
1990