James Bond is driving from Lake Garda to Siena, Italy, with the captured Mr. White (Jesper Christensen) in the boot of his car. After evading pursuers, Bond delivers White to M, who interrogates him regarding his organisation, Quantum. Ms bodyguard, Craig Mitchell (Glenn Foster), is a double agent; he attacks M, enabling White to escape. Bond chases Mitchell and kills him. Bond and M return to London and search Mitchells flat, discovering Mitchell had a contact in Haiti, Edmund Slate (Neil Jackson). Bond learns Slate is a hitman sent to kill Camille Montes (Olga Kurylenko) at the behest of her lover, environmentalist entrepreneur Dominic Greene (Mathieu Amalric). Observing her subsequent meeting with Greene, Bond learns Greene is helping exiled Bolivian General Medrano (Joaquín Cosío), who murdered Camilles family, to overthrow his government and become the new president, in exchange for a seemingly barren piece of desert. After rescuing Camille from Medrano, Bond follows Greene to a performance of Tosca in Bregenz, Austria. Meanwhile, the head of the CIAs South American section, Gregg Beam (David Harbour), strikes a noninterference deal with Greene for access to putative stocks of Bolivian oil. Bond infiltrates Quantums meeting at the opera, identifying members of Quantums executive board, and a gunfight ensues. A Special Branch bodyguard working for Quantum member Guy Haines (Paul Ritter), is killed by one of Greenes men after Bond throws him off a roof. M assumes Bond killed him, and has Bonds passports and credit cards revoked. Bond heads to Italy and convinces his old ally René Mathis (Giancarlo Giannini) to accompany him to Bolivia. They are greeted by Strawberry Fields (Gemma Arterton), a consular employee who demands Bond return to the UK immediately. Bond seduces her and they attend a fundraising party Greene holds that night. At the party, Bond again rescues Camille from Greene. Leaving, Bond and Camille are pulled over by Bolivian police working for Medrano. They had earlier attacked Mathis and put him in the boot of Bonds car to frame Bond. In the ensuing struggle, Mathis and the cops are killed. The following day, Bond and Camille survey Quantums intended land acquisition by air; their plane is shot down by a Bolivian fighter aircraft. They skydive into a sinkhole, and discover Quantum is damming Bolivias supply of fresh water to create a monopoly. Back in La Paz, Bond meets M and learns Quantum killed Fields by drowning her in crude oil. Bond meets CIA Agent Felix Leiter (Jeffrey Wright), who discloses Greene and Medrano will meet in the Atacama Desert to finalise their agreement. Warned by Leiter, he evades the CIAs Special Activities Division when they attempt to kill him. At an eco hotel in the desert, Greene tells Medrano that now he controls the majority of Bolivias water supply, Medrano must accept a new contract that makes Greene Planet Bolivias sole water utility company at significantly higher rates. Bond infiltrates the complex, kills the chief of police (Fernando Guillén Cuervo) for betraying Mathis, and single-handedly assaults the hotel. After killing the security detail, he confronts Greene. Meanwhile, Camille kills Medrano, avenging the murders of her family. The struggle leaves the hotel destroyed by fire. Bond captures Greene and interrogates him about Quantum, leaving him stranded in the desert with only a can of engine oil, wondering if Greene will get thirsty enough to drink it. Bond travels to Kazan, Russia, where he finds Vesper Lynds former lover, Yusef Kabira (Simon Kassianides), a member of Quantum who seduces women with valuable connections, and who is indirectly responsible for her death. Bond tells Kabiras latest target, Corrine Veneau (Stana Katic), a Canadian Intelligence agent, of Kabiras true intentions, thus sparing her Vespers fate. He allows MI6 to arrest Kabira. Outside, M tells Bond that Greene was found dead in the middle of the desert, shot twice and with engine oil in his stomach. M tells Bond she needs him back; he responds that he never left. Walking away, he drops Vespers necklace in the snow.
Quantum of Solace
2008