The story, set in ancient Rome during the final years of Emperor Neros reign, 64–68 AD, combines both historical and fictional events and characters, and compresses the key events of that period into the space of only a few weeks. Its main theme is the Roman Empire’s conflict with Christianity and persecution of Christians in the final years of the Julio-Claudian line. Unlike his illustrious and powerful predecessor, Emperor Claudius, Nero proved corrupt and destructive, and his actions eventually threatened to destroy Romes previously peaceful social order. Marcus Vinicius (Robert Taylor) is a Roman military commander and the legate of the XIV Gemina. Returning from the wars, he falls in love with Lygia (Deborah Kerr), a devout Christian, and as a result, finds himself increasingly drawn to her religion. Though she grew up Roman as the adopted daughter of Aulus Plautius (Felix Aylmer), a retired general, Lygia is technically a hostage of Rome. Marcus persuades Nero (Peter Ustinov) to give her to him as a reward for the services he has rendered. Lygia resents this arrangement, but nevertheless falls in love with Marcus.  Meanwhile, Neros atrocities become increasingly outrageous and his behavior more irrational. After Nero burns Rome and blames the Christians, Marcus sets off to rescue Lygia and her family. Nero captures them, along with all the Christians, and condemns them to be killed in the arena. However, Petronius (Leo Genn), Marcuss uncle and Neros most trusted advisor, warns him that the Christians will be made martyrs. Then, tired of Neros insanity, and suspecting that Nero may be about to turn on him too, Petronius composes a letter to Nero expressing his derision for the emperor (which he previously had concealed to avoid being murdered by him). After sending the letter, Petronius commits suicide, severing an artery in his wrist. Marcus is arrested and sent to prison for his efforts to save Lygia. Saint Peter (Finlay Currie) also has been arrested and imprisoned after returning to Rome in response to a sign from the Lord, and Peter marries the couple. Peter is later crucified upside-down, a form of execution conceived of by Nero’s guard as an expression of mockery.  Poppaea (Patricia Laffan), Neros wife, who lusts after Marcus, devises a diabolical revenge for his rejection of her. Lygia is tied to a wooden stake in the arena. A wild bull is also placed there, and Lygias bodyguard Ursus (Buddy Baer) must try to kill it with his bare hands, otherwise Lygia will be gored to death. Marcus is tied to the spectators box and forced to watch, much to the horror of his officers, who also attend the spectacle. When all seems hopeless, Ursus is able to break the bulls neck. Hugely impressed by Ursuss courage, the crowd exhorts Nero to spare them. The emperor refuses to do so, even after four of his retainers Seneca (Nicholas Hannen), architect Phaon (D.A. Clarke-Smith), poet Lucan (Alfredo Varelli), and Terpnos (Geoffrey Dunn) add their endorsement of the mobs demands by putting their thumbs up as well. Marcus then breaks free of his bonds, leaps into the arena, frees Lygia with the help of the loyal troops from his own legion, and announces that General Galba is at that moment marching on Rome, intent on replacing Nero.  The crowd revolts, now firmly believing that Nero, and not the Christians, is responsible for the burning of Rome. Nero flees to his palace, where he strangles Poppaea to death, blaming her for attempting to scapegoat the Christians. Then Acte (Rosalie Crutchley), a palace slave who was once in unrequited love with Nero, appears and offers to aid him in ending his own life before the mob storms the palace. Nero can not do it, so Acte helped him, helping him to push the dagger into his chest. Marcus, Lygia and Ursus are now free and leave Rome. By the roadside, Peters crook, which he had left behind when he returned to Rome, has miraculously sprouted flowers. The radiant light intones, "I am the way, the truth, and the life," words reported to have been spoken by Jesus (John 14:6, New Testament).
Quo Vadis (1951 film)
1951