Daffy Duck lures Elmer Fudd to Bugs Bunnys burrow, calls down to the rabbit that a friend is here to see him, then watches from behind a tree as Elmer shoots at the emerged Bugs - parting his ears. As Elmer prepares to shoot again, Bugs informs him that it isnt rabbit season, but rather duck season. Daffy storms out, irate, and attempts to convince Elmer that Bugs is lying. Their conversation breaks down into Bugs engaging Daffy in a verbal play, which result in Daffy saying its duck season. Once he says this, he tells Elmer to fire, which he does. After Daffys beak spins back into place, he tries the verbal game again, this time starting first. It ends the same way. When Daffy is shot for the third time, he walks away, his beak upside down on his head. Elmer goes to shoot him, but it appears the gun is out of bullets. Bugs relays this apparent fact to Daffy and, thrilled, Daffy comes back. He grabs Elmers gun to make sure, only to be shot with the last bullet. Daffy then sees a sign that Bugs has nailed to a tree saying Duck Season Open. As he sees Elmer approaching, he disguises himself as Bugs, and reminds him that its duck season. Bugs then appears, disguised as Daffy, complete with webbed feet and fake bill, and asks Daffy why he thinks its duck season. Daffy points at the tree where he previously saw the Duck Season Open sign. However, the sign nailed to that tree now reads Rabbit Season Open, implying that Bugs switched the sign. Elmer, of course, shoots Daffy. After Daffy gets blasted, he goes up to Bugs and says, "Youre desthpicable!" The two walk away, shedding their costumes as Daffy rants to Bugs how despicable he is. Ignoring Daffy, Bugs then begins to read duck recipes from a cookbook that he pulls from his rabbit hole, and Daffy does the same with a rabbit recipe cookbook that he also pulls from the rabbit hole (though why Bugs would keep a rabbit recipe book in his own home is unknown, and goes unquestioned). Elmer tells them hes a vegetarian and only hunts for the sport of it (although, in previous episodes, it has been stated that he was hunting Bugs for rabbit stew or the like). Outraged, Bugs gets in Elmers face and claims, "Oh, yeah? Well, theres other sports besides huntin, ya know!" Daffy then offers to play tennis ("Anyone for tennis?"). Elmer blasts him again, tells Bugs that hes next, and then begins shooting and chases both of them all the way to the rabbit hole, into which both Daffy and Bugs jump. Bugs comes out to accuse Elmer of "hunting rabbits with an elephant gun," suggesting Elmer shoot an elephant instead. Just as Elmer is considering it, a huge elephant appears from literally nowhere, threatens Elmer in a Joe Besser voice, and preemptively pounds him into the ground before striding off. Elmer finally loses patience and decides to take out both Bugs and Daffy. Daffy comes into the scene, disguised as a hunting dog and Bugs comes in as a lady hunter. It appears that the outrage of Elmer hunting for sport rather than for food has united both rabbit and duck against him. Initially, Elmers smitten by the lady (Bugs gives him a peck on the cheek). Then, Daffy - as the dog - bites Elmer on the ankle. Elmer then recognizes both of them and is seemingly about to finally finish them both off. Daffy and Bugs dash to a tree where they begin alternately tearing off Rabbit Season and Duck Season signs, until they hit a final one proclaiming it to be Elmer Season. The tables turned, Elmer starts running and Bugs and Daffy, dressed as hunters, begin to stalk him.
Rabbit Fire
1951