The cartoon opens with people filing in to see The Barber of Seville in an amphitheatre. From the hills in back of the theatre, gunfire flashes and shots are heard. Bugs is being chased by a hunter, who we soon learn is Elmer, and runs down from the hills and through the open stage door. He slams the door and hides himself behind it as Elmer enters and stalks, unknowingly, onstage behind the curtain. His back to the curtain, Elmer does not notice it rise when Bugs, using a carrot to do so, flicks the switch. The conductor, after a brief, confused glance at his watch, shrugs and starts the orchestra. This causes Elmer to flinch and then turn, wide-eyed, toward the audience. Bugs, dressed as a barber, steps out from the doorway of a staged barber shop. He grabs Elmer, who is trying to sneak offstage, and forces him to get a shave, rendering him "nice and clean, although your face looks like it might have gone through a machine." After recovering, Elmer retrieves his hunters hat and rifle and starts the chase again, singing his only line "Oh, wait till I get that wabbit!", but is stopped by Bugs, dressed as a temptress, singing, "What would you want with a wabbit? Cant you see that Im much sweeter? Im your little señorita. You are my type of guy, let me straighten your tie, and I shall dance for you." (no dialogue is heard again from this point on until the end). Bugs has tied the shotgun into a bow (when he had straightened Elmers supposed tie); now, dancing and using scissors like castanets, he snips off Elmers pants suspender buttons. Elmer has been behaving as if smitten with the temptress, and is thoroughly embarrassed when he realizes his pants have fallen down; he sees through Bugs disguise and shoots the rifle, resulting in him being blown back into the barbers chair. Bugs has another go on Elmers scalp, beginning with a massage with hands and feet, then turning his head into a fruit salad bowl (complete with whipped cream and a cherry on top). Elmer chases Bugs with a razor, but Bugs becomes a snake charmer, actually charming an electric shaver to chase Elmer. Elmer eventually disables the shaver with a shotgun blast and chases Bugs back to the barbers chairs. Bugs and Elmer raise their chairs to dizzying heights, Elmer shooting at Bugs all the way. Bugs cuts loose a stage sandbag which lands in Elmers lap, causing the chair to spin back down into the barbershop. After receiving the traditional barbers gratuity from the dazed Elmer, Bugs then throws him in a revolving door to further daze him and, as Elmer staggers back out, waltzes him back into the barbers chair. Before Bugs third go-round with the scalp, he opens one of Elmers boots with a can opener and does a pedicure using hedge clippers, file, and red paint. That is followed by pouring hair restorer on Elmers face, then shaving off the resulting beard with a miniature mower and, finally, a masque for the face using beauty clay, which Bugs handles like cement. Then its back to the scalp as Bugs first massages it with hair tonic, then adds "Figaro Fertilizer", causing hair to grow which sprouts into flowers. As a result, a short chase occurs during which Bugs and Elmer take turns pursuing each other, back and forth across the stage, with increasingly bigger weapons (axes, guns, cannons). Finally, Bugs ends the chase by offering flowers, chocolates, and a ring to Elmer, who ducks offstage and returns as a blushing bride. The tune then briefly switches to the "Wedding March" by Mendelssohn; the performance concludes with Bugs racing with his bride up a long flight of stairs and, when they reach a false door at the top, Bugs picks Elmer up as if to carry him over the threshold. Instead he drops him head-first into a wedding cake below, labeled, "The Marriage of Figaro". Bugs then looks at the camera, smirks, and breaking the fourth wall, says, in the same manner in which he delivers his catchphrase, "Eh, next?"
Rabbit of Seville
1950