An alien spacecraft crashes near Searchlight, Nevada, 150 miles outside of Las Vegas. Project Moon Dust, a secret Defense Department unit led by Henry Burke (Ciarán Hinds), arrive at the scene of the crash in black helicopters. Men in Black seize the ship and search for its passengers. Back in Las Vegas, Jack Bruno (Dwayne Johnson) is a former mob get-away driver who drives a cab to avoid returning to jail. One of his passengers is Dr. Alex Friedman (Carla Gugino), a failed astrophysicist who has come to Las Vegas to speak at a UFO convention at the Planet Hollywood hotel. After fending off two thugs who seek his services for a mob boss named Andrew Wolfe, Bruno finds two teenagers, Sara (AnnaSophia Robb) and Seth (Alexander Ludwig), in his cab. They offer $15,000 to drive them to an unknown destination. Burkes men engage Bruno in a high speed chase. Mistaking the government agents for more mob thugs, he tries to evade them with his driving skills. Seths ability to vary his molecular density helps the group to escape. When they arrive at an abandoned house, Bruno follows them out of concern and curiosity. The teenagers retrieve the device they were looking for within a hidden underground laboratory, but the three are attacked by a "Siphon" (Tom Woodruff, Jr.), a powerful armored alien assassin. The Siphon pursues the group until its spaceship crashes into a train and the creature is wounded. After settling at a diner to calm their nerves, the three again escape Burkes agents thanks to Saras telepathy and telekinetics. The teenagers explain to Bruno that they are aliens from a dying planet located 3,000 light years from Earth. Its government intends to invade Earth, despite the majority of their race fully opposed to the plan, so that their kind may survive. Seth and Saras parents are scientists who sought a way to save their planet without invasion but were arrested before completing their experiment. The teenagers came to retrieve the successful results, but the alien government sent the assassin to stop them. To save both worlds, they must retrieve their spaceship and return home. Bruno brings Seth and Sara to Dr. Friedman at the UFO convention. Despite initially dismissing Brunos story as bluff, she believes him after Seth and Sara narrate their current situation. She then realizes that the teenagers are what she has been searching for and joins the group. They meet fellow UFOlogist and conspiracy theorist Dr. Donald Harlan (Garry Marshall), who tells them that the spaceship was taken to the secret California government base named Witch Mountain. Harlan and his men distract the soldiers with Brunos taxi while the others escape to Witch Mountain on Harlans RV. The group arrives at the base but are captured by Burke. He orders that the teenagers be prepared for vivisection, but frees the adults as no one will believe their story. The Siphon attacks Witch Mountain and engages the soldiers, allowing Bruno and Friedman to infiltrate the base and free Seth and Sara. They launch the ship, escape through the mountains tunnels, and finally kill the assassin who has stowed away on the spaceship. The teenagers give Bruno and Friedman a tracking device that will allow the aliens to always find them. They tearfully wish them farewell, but not before Sara gives her telepathic powers to Bruno. Some weeks later, Bruno and Friedman become successful authors of a book named Race to Witch Mountain: A True Story. They promote their book and knowledge on the UFO convention circuit, explaining that the publicity protects them from government reprisal. As they leave the convention, the alien device activates, implying that the alien teenagers may be returning to Earth.
Race to Witch Mountain
2009