Kym Buchman is released from drug rehab for a few days so she can go home to attend the wedding of her older sister, Rachel. Kyms past drug- and alcohol-fueled antics have more or less made her the black sheep of her family. Kyms father, Paul, shows intense concern for her well-being and whereabouts, which Kym interprets as mistrust. Kym also resents her sisters choice of her best friend to be her maid of honor instead of her. Rachel, for her part, resents the attention her sisters drug addiction is drawing away from her wedding, a resentment that comes to a head at the rehearsal dinner, where Kym, amid toasts from friends and family, takes the microphone to offer an apology for her past actions, as part of her twelve-step program. Underlying the familys dynamic is a tragedy that occurred years previously, which Kym retells at a Narcotics Anonymous meeting. As a teenager, Kym was responsible for the death of her younger brother, Ethan, who was left in her care one day; driving home from a nearby park, an intoxicated Kym had lost control of the car, driving over a bridge and into a lake, where her brother drowned. The day before the wedding, as Rachel, Kym, and the other bridesmaids are getting their hair done, Kym is approached by a man whom she knew from an earlier stint in rehab. He thanks her for the strength she gave him through a story about having been molested by an uncle and having cared for her sister, who was anorexic. Rachel, hearing this, storms out of the hair salon. The story turns out to be a lie, an apparent attempt by Kym to evade responsibility for her addiction. The tension between the sisters comes to a head that night at Pauls house, when Kym comes home. Rachel reveals she has never forgiven Kym for their brothers death and suggests Kyms rehab has been a hoax since she has been lying about the cause of her problems. Kym acknowledges the amount of progress she makes may never make her worthy of forgiveness. She gets into her fathers car and leaves, heading to the home of their mother, Abby, hoping to find solace with her. However, Kym eventually asks Abby why she left Ethan in her care the day he died despite knowing she was a drug addict, making it clear she believes Abby is partly responsible for what happened. Abby becomes furious at this and punches Kym in the face. Kym hits her back and drives off. Heavily distraught, she drives the car off the road in an attempted suicide and crashes into a boulder. She survives and spends the night sleeping in the crashed car. The next morning, the day of the wedding, the police awaken Kym, and she gets a ride home with the driver of the tow truck that is towing the wrecked car. She makes her way to Rachels room as Rachel prepares for the wedding. Seeing Kyms bruised face prompts her previous anger to vanish, and Rachel tenderly bathes and dresses her sister. Amid a festive Indian theme, Rachel and her fiancé, Sidney, are wed. Kym is the maid of honor and overcome with emotion as the couple exchanges their vows. She tries to enjoy herself throughout the wedding reception but continues to feel out of place and is plagued by the dispute with Abby, who is also there. Ultimately, Abby leaves the reception early despite Rachels effort to bring the two together, and the feud between Kym and Abby is left unresolved. The next morning, Kym returns to rehab. As she is leaving, Rachel runs out of the house to hug her.
Rachel Getting Married
2008