Bugs Bunny, looking for a place to pass the night, happens on an abandoned farm house, which, unbeknownst to Bugs, is the hideout of two gangsters, Rocky and Hugo. After claiming "Huh! Sounds like Inner Sanctum" while opening the squeaky front door, he drills a hole in the ground, dons a nightcap, descends in a manner as if walking down spiral stairs and goes to sleep. Shortly thereafter, Rocky and Hugo return pursued by rival gangsters (turning a corner where a billboard advertises the Hotel Friz, an in-joke referring to director Friz Freleng). The running gunfight continues as they take cover inside the farmhouse; Bugs comically gets up in the middle of the gunfight (now also wearing a nightshirt) to use the bathroom and get a glass of water before returning to bed just as the shooting ends. Later while Rocky is doling out his and Hugos shares of the money from the heist they just pulled, Bugs slyly cuts in after noticing Rocky is not paying attention. He poses as several gang members until he gets all of the money. Rocky then wises up, and demands the money back. Bugs refuses, even suntanning under the light Hugo uses in an attempt via the third degree to find out where the money is hidden. When Rocky points a gun at Bugs to extract information from him, Bugs spouts out something incomprehensible at top speed. Rocky then has Hugo take Bugs for a ride, which he gladly accepts, claiming "I could use a breath of fresh air!" Bugs returns to the house without Hugo (who is absent from the rest of the cartoon, his fate unrevealed), and Rocky at first does not notice. When he does, he threatens Bugs continuously (all the while demanding that he helps him get dressed). He demands to know where the "dough" is, and after promising not to look (since Bugs does not want him to know where he hid it) gets a bowl of pie-dough in the face. Bugs then poses as Mugsy, another gangster (flipping a coin like George Raft), who threatens that "Its curtains for you, Rocky" as if he is going to execute Rocky, and then pulls an actual set of curtains from inside his jacket and hangs them over Rockys head (to which Rocky admits "Aw, theyre adorable."). Bugs then pretends to be the police, and has Rocky hide inside a chest while he "deals with" the police. In faux pas, Bugs acts out the police breaking in, demanding to know Rockys whereabouts, a fight ensuing over the chest which he is in (Bugs sticks two swords in the chest, plus he drags the chest up and down stairs afterwards), and Bugs play-acting a fight in which he eventually throws the cop out the window. During the phony fight Bugs opens the chest and hands Rocky a time bomb (asking "hold me watch"), and after Bugs declares he has taken care of the cops the bomb promptly detonates, leaving Rockys clothes tattered and in shreds. Rocky asks which direction the cops went, and after Bugs points the way, Rocky flees the house by jumping through the window while desirably screaming to be arrested and not wanting to be left "with that crazy rabbit". Bugs sighs, "Some guys just cant take it, see? Nah, nah, nah, nah!" (impersonating Rocky).
Racketeer Rabbit
1946