Following the death of rancher John Dodge, foreman Gene Autry (Gene Autry) is left the responsibility of taking care of Rancho Grande ranch and Dodges three spoiled grandchildren raised in the east. Gene is also responsible for completing a major project started by Dodge—the construction of an irrigation system that would bring valuable water to the faithful Rancho Grande employees in the southern part of the valley. Dodge mortgaged his ranch in order to finance the project. When Dodges grandchildren, Tom (Dick Hogan), Kay (June Storey), and Patsy (Mary Lee), arrive from the east, they are unimpressed with life on the ranch. Tom and Kay are madcap college types who think ranchlife is boring and long to return to the big city. They resent Genes authority and dismiss his talk of developing a work ethic and the importance of the irrigation project. Meanwhile, crooked lawyer Emory Benson (Ferris Taylor) is planning to seize the mortgage to Rancho Grande. After meeting Tom and Kay, he decides to take advantage of their discontent in order to slow the irrigation project and prevent the bank from renewing the mortgage. Gradually, Gene is able to win Kay over to his way of thinking, but Tom falls in with a group of partying tenderfoots from the east. He invites them to stay at Rancho Grande, where they get in everyones way. Gene and his sidekick Frog Millhouse (Smiley Burnette) finally succeed in scaring the dudes off the ranch. Angered by Genes actions, Tom and Kay decide to leave. When a rockslide at the irrigation project site injures Jose, a faithful Rancho Grande employee, Tom and Kay come to their senses and pledge to help complete the project on time. Continuing his plan of terror, Benson dynamites a train carrying the pipe needed to complete the project. When Gene and his men ride to salvage the pipe, Benson and his gang are waiting for a showdown. In the gunfight that ensues, Gene captures Benson and his gang, insuring the timely completion of the irrigation project and the grandchildrens continued ownership of Rancho Grande.
Rancho Grande (film)
1940