Remy is an idealistic and ambitious young rat, gifted with highly developed senses of taste and smell. Inspired by his idol, the recently deceased chef Auguste Gusteau, Remy dreams of becoming a cook himself. When an old French woman discovers Remys colony in her house and attempts to exterminate them, they are forced to flee, and Remy becomes separated from his family in the panic. He ends up in the sewers of Paris and eventually finds himself at a skylight overlooking the kitchen of Gusteaus restaurant. As Remy watches through the window, a young man named Alfredo Linguini is hired as a garbage boy by Skinner, the restaurants current owner and Gusteaus former sous-chef. When Linguini spills a pot of soup and attempts to recreate it, Remy recognizes that he is ruining it instead, and repairs Linguinis mistakes. Linguini catches Remy but hides him when he is then confronted by Skinner for tampering with the soup. As the two argue, the soup is accidentally served and proves to be a success. The staff convinces Skinner to retain Linguini, who is assumed to be the soups creator. When Skinner catches Remy trying to escape, he orders Linguini to kill the rat, but Linguini discovers Remys intelligence and decides to keep him instead.  On Linguinis first day as a chef, he and Remy find a way to communicate: Remy guides Linguini like a marionette by pulling on his hair while hidden under Linguinis toque, while Skinner assigns Colette Tatou, the staffs only female chef, to train his new cook. Suspicious, Skinner learns that Linguini is Gusteaus illegitimate son and the rightful heir to the restaurant. Remy discovers the evidence of Linguinis inheritance and, after eluding Skinner, gives it to Linguini, who deposes Skinner as owner. The restaurant continues to thrive as all of Remys recipes become immediate hits. Linguini and Colette develop a budding romance, and Remy begins to feel left out. Remy finds that his clan has come to Paris as well, and is taken to their new lair, but despite his father Djangos attempts to rid his son of his admiration of humans, Remy leaves. Frances top restaurant critic, Anton Ego, whose previous negative review cost Gusteaus one of its stars and caused Gusteaus death, announces he will re-review the restaurant the following evening. That night, Remy and Linguini have a heated argument. Remy leads his clan to raid the restaurants pantries in retaliation, but Linguini catches them and sends them out. Having now discovered Remys skills, Skinner captures him in an attempt to use him to create a new line of frozen foods. However, Remy is freed by Django and Emile. He returns to the restaurant, only to find Linguini is unable to cook without him. Linguini apologizes and reveals the truth to the staff, but they leave in disbelief. Colette later returns after recalling Gusteaus motto, "Anyone can cook." Django arrives with the rest of the clan, offering to help after seeing his sons determination. Remy has the rats cook, while Linguini waits tables. For Ego and Skinner, Remy and Colette create a variation of ratatouille, which reminds an astonished Ego of his own mothers cooking. During the meal, the rats are forced to tie up Skinner and a health inspector to prevent them from revealing the rats involvement in the cooking. When Ego requests to see the chef, Linguini and Colette make him wait until the rest of the diners have left before introducing Remy. Ego is stunned and leaves the restaurant, deep in thought. He writes a positive and thoughtful review for the newspaper the next day, stating that Gusteaus chef (Remy) is "nothing less than the finest chef in France." Despite the positive review, Gusteaus is shut down, since Linguini and Remy had to release Skinner and the health inspector. Ego loses his job and his credibility as a critic, but funds a popular new bistro, "La Ratatouille", created and run by Remy, Linguini, and Colette. Ego frequents the bistro for Remys cooking, and the rats settle into their new home in the bistros roof.
Ratatouille (film)
2007