Above planet Tenemule in the Solana Galaxy, Chairman Drek (Paul Giamatti) stands poised with his fellow Blarg aboard the Deplanetizer, a space station with the power to destroy entire planets. The Blarg fire the Deplanetizer at Tenemule, completely destroying it. On planet Veldin, a young spaceship mechanic named Ratchet (James Arnold Taylor) learns of the destruction of Tenemule along with three other planets, and the peacekeeping Galactic Rangers are being dispatched to address the situation. He also learns that their leader, the egocentric Captain Qwark (Jim Ward), plans to visit Veldin in search of a new recruit to the team. To the reluctance of his mentor Grimroth "Grim" Razz (John Goodman), Ratchet attempts to join, only to be rejected by Qwark moments later. In a warbot factory on the Blarg homeworld, Quartu, a diminutive yet intelligent defective robot is created. Having acquired Dreks plans, he escapes Dreks lieutenant Victor Von Ion (Sylvester Stallone) and attempts to travel to the Rangers headquarters on planet Kerwan to warn them. The defect crash-lands on Veldin, where Ratchet takes him in and names him Clank (David Kaye). Learning of Dreks plot, Ratchet flies Clank to Kerwan, where the two are forced to help save the Galactic Rangers, who are under attack by the Blarg. Victor barely escapes. Under pressure from reporters, Qwark makes Ratchet and Clank honorary Rangers. Meanwhile, Dreks devious chief scientist Dr. Nefarious (Armin Shimerman) gives him the idea of destroying the Rangers from within by turning Qwark against them. Ratchet joins fellow Galactic Rangers, Brax Lectrus (Vincent Tong) and Cora Veralux (Bella Thorne) in the field while Clank is assigned to the Rangers support team with Elaris (Rosario Dawson), who is routinely ignored by Qwark. Studying the destroyed planets, Elaris and Clank discover that the Blarg have been extracting portions containing famous landmarks from each. After briefing, the Rangers infiltrate the warbot factory on Quartu. Ratchet, Clank and Cora discover that the Blarg are planning to build a replacement homeworld from the other worlds fragments, as the surface of Quartu was rendered uninhabitable by years of pollution, forcing the Blarg to live underground. Meanwhile Qwark encounters Drek, who offers to help boost his image in spite of Ratchets popularity. Qwark accepts so long as Drek agrees never to hurt his Rangers. The rangers capture Zed (Andrew Cownden), one of Dreks main assistants, who tells them the next target is Coras homeworld of Novalis. As the Rangers assault the Deplanetizer, Drek forces Qwark to deactivate the Rangers weapons. Victor raids the Rangers starship, the Phoenix, and goes after Clank, who smartly uses water to rust him up. Ratchet manages to successfully board the station, but Drek captures him and the Rangers can only watch as Novalis is destroyed. Upon being captured, Ratchet learns Qwark is a traitor before being jettisoned from Dreks ship. Appalled, Qwark goes to confront Drek. However, he is also met by Dr. Nefarious whom Qwark thought was killed during a prison escape. After he chides Qwark for selling out the Rangers, Dr. Nefarious betrays Drek by using a "Sheepinator" to turn him into a sheep and ejects him to New Quartu in an escape pod and takes control of the Deplanetizer for his own intentions. Ratchet exiles himself back to Veldin, guilt-ridden and believing himself responsible for the Rangers failure, but Clank and the Rangers find him and convince him to return. With Novalis gone, the Deplanetizers next and last target is planet Umbris, which has an unstable core that would annihilate the other planets in the entire galaxy if it were destroyed. Zed tells the group that Nefarious is the one behind all this. They assault the Deplanetizer and Ratchet is forced to battle Qwark. After a long battle Ratchet pleads for Qwark to stop, asking him if the galaxys destruction is really what he he wants to be remembered for since everything including them would be destroyed if Umbris was. Qwark, now realizing what he has done, finally does so and apologizes to Ratchet. They confront Dr. Nefarious, who reveals that he was once a Ranger himself before he left due to Qwarks mistreatment. Dr. Nefarious successfully activates the Deplanetizer and escapes, but not before the other Rangers are able to move it off target from Umbris. The Deplanetizer instead fires on New Quartu, destroying the composite planet and killing Drek, still being a sheep who crash landed on it moments prior. Ratchet, Clank and Qwark barely escape as the now-vulnerable station falls toward Umbris, while Dr. Nefarious is seemingly disintegrated as the result of a failed attempt to use one of his own weapons (the RYNO) on Qwark. Having thwarted Dr. Nefarious, the other Rangers narrowly escape the Deplanetizer and return to a heros welcome on Kerwan, with the now-demoted Private Qwark shamelessly attempting to promote his apologetic autobiography about the crisis. Ratchet and Clank reunite on Veldin, with Ratchet promising that he will rejoin the Rangers when he is needed. In a mid-credits scene, Dr. Nefarious is found amongst the Deplanetizers wreckage on Umbris, and forcibly converted by one of his drones into his iconic robot form. In the post-credits, the Plumber appears and scolds the audience that they have still not left the movie yet.
Ratchet & Clank (film)
2016