Donald Sinclair, the eccentric owner of The Venetian Resort in Las Vegas, devises a new game to entertain the high rollers who visit his hotel. Six special tokens are placed in the casinos slot machines, and the winners are told that $2 million in cash is hidden in a duffel bag in a train station locker in Silver City, New Mexico, 563 miles southeast of Las Vegas. Each team is given a key to the locker and told to race to the train station to claim the money. Unbeknownst to the competitors, Sinclairs wealthy patrons are placing bets on who will win. The patrons continue making smaller bets throughout the film, facilitated by Sinclairs assistant Grisham, who at one point hires an escort as part of a dare. Among the racers are scheming siblings Duane and Blaine Cody, businesswoman Merrill Jennings and her estranged mother Vera, disgraced American football referee Owen Templeton, the Pear family led by opportunistic father Randy, eccentric Italian tourist Enrico Pollini, and no-nonsense Nick Schaffer. Unable to get on the earliest flight, Duane and Blaine manage to destroy the airport radar with their Ford Bronco, grounding everybody else. However their vehicle is wrecked in the sabotage, so they steal another. The brothers decide to split up and create a replica key to double their chances of winning. The locksmith overhears their plan and makes off with the key in a hot air balloon. Duane and Blaine catch up to him, leaving the locksmith and a stray dairy cow hanging from the balloons anchor rope. The brothers later steal a monster truck and continue towards Silver City. Merrill and Vera crash their car after being given malicious road directions. They steal a rocket car, which races across the desert until it runs out of fuel. The women dizzily stumble onto a bus full of mental patients which eventually drives toward Silver City. Owen masquerades as the driver of a bus filled with Lucille Ball impersonators going to an I Love Lucy convention. Outside Silver City, the bus hits the cow dangling from the hot air balloon and swerves off the road. Owen has an emotional breakdown, reveals he is not the bus driver, and is forced to flee from the women on foot. Owen eventually rides a stolen horse to Silver City. Randy Pear deceives his family into accompanying him in the race, stating that it is a business trip. The family mistakenly visits a museum dedicated to the Nazi Klaus Barbie. After the Cody brothers vandalize their vehicle, the Pears steal Adolf Hitlers staff car to continue. Randy declines to end the trip when his family becomes tired of traveling. He eventually tells them about the $2 million, and they are initially excited. However, when his family insists on ending the trip again, he drugs them with sleeping pills and bundles them into a semi-truck to reach Silver City. Nick chooses not to participate in the race until he meets pilot Tracy Faucet, who gives him an advantage as she is one of the few still able to fly, using her non-fixed-wing helicopter. The helicopter stalls after Tracy uses it to attack her cheating boyfriend. The two then steal his truck to continue the race. Narcoleptic Enrico falls asleep at the start of the race and only awakens hours later. He receives a ride from an ambulance driver, Zack, who is delivering a transplant heart to El Paso. Enrico eventually boards a train heading to Silver City. The racers reunite in Silver City and tackle each other to open the locker, only to find it is empty. Outside, they find Sinclairs assistant Grisham and the call girl he hired making off with the money bag. They lose it when the locksmith ties it to the balloon, only for the three to crash their car. The racers follow the balloon until it lands at an outdoor charity concert hosted by Smash Mouth. The band and crowd mistake the money as a donation, and once they see the charitable good spirit they have made, the group are persuaded to accept. Nick surprises a horrified Sinclair and his patrons by declaring to the audience that the gamblers will match the amount of money already raised. The racers dance to "All Star" while Sinclair cries.
Rat Race (film)
2001