During the Mexican-American War (1846 – 1848), Second Lieutenant Boyd, who is fighting in the United States Army, finds his courage fail him in battle so he plays dead as his unit is massacred. His body, along with the other dead are put in a cart and hauled back to the Mexican headquarters (throughout this journey blood drips into Boyds mouth). However, in a moment of bravery, Boyd seizes the chance to capture the Mexican headquarters. His heroism earns him a captains promotion but when General Slauson learns of the cowardice through which victory was achieved he posts Boyd into exile at Fort Spencer, a remote military outpost high in the Sierra Nevada. Shortly after Boyd joins the seven-man garrison at Fort Spencer, a stranger named Colqhoun arrives and describes how his wagon train became lost in the mountains. A Colonel Ives had promised the party a shorter route to the Pacific Ocean but instead had led them on a more circuitous route resulting in the party getting trapped by snow. People were reduced to cannibalism to avoid starvation. A rescue party is assembled to search for survivors. But before they leave they are warned by their Native American scout, George, of the Wendigo myth: anyone who consumes the flesh of their enemies takes their strength but becomes a demon cursed by an insatiable hunger for more human flesh. When the soldiers reach the cave where the party had taken refuge they realize that Colqhoun and Ives are one and the same. He had killed and eaten his five companions and is now set on trapping and killing the soldiers as well. Colqhoun kills them one by one, including Colonel Hart, the forts commanding officer. Boyd escapes the massacre by jumping off a cliff and breaks his leg in the process. He hides in a pit next to the body of a fellow soldier. Eventually he eats some of the mans flesh to stay alive. When he finally limps back into the fort he is delirious and severely traumatized; none of the remaining soldiers (none of whem met Colqhoun) believe his wild tale. A second expedition finds no bodies or any trace of the man. A temporary commander is assigned to the fort; to Boyds horror it turns out to be Colqhoun, now cleaned up and calling himself Colonel Ives. The others still refuse to believe that Ives is the killer because he bears no sign of the wounds inflicted on him during the fight at the cave. Ives tells Boyd that he used to suffer from tuberculosis but when a Native scout told him the Wendigo myth he "just had to try" by murdering him, eating his flesh and in the process curing his illness. He now planned to use the fort as a base to do the same to other passing travellers; he compares the location of the fort, with the guaranteed supply of isolated migrants that it entails, to the notion of Manifest Destiny that draws them there. Boyd is suspected of murder after another soldier mysteriously dies while chained up; he watches helplessly as the last officer is murdered by an unexpected ally of Ives: Colonel Hart, back from the dead after the massacre. Ives saved Hart by feeding him his own comrades, and now Hart is addicted, like Colqhoun, to human flesh. Ives wounds Boyd and forces him to make a choice: eat or die. Eventually Boyd gives in and eats a stew made out of the last officer killed and his wound heals. But rather than join the two men in their conspiracy to convert General Slauson, Boyd convinces Hart to free him so he can kill Ives. Hart does so but asks that he be killed because he no longer wants to live as a cannibal. Boyd and Ives inflict grievous wounds on each other. They dont die easily due to their recuperative powers. In an outhouse, Boyd forces Ives into a large bear trap and springs it, pinning them both together. Ives taunts Boyd by telling him hell eat him as soon as he dies but Ives expires first. General Slauson arrives, and while his aide looks around the dilapidated fort, the general tastes the stew that was left simmering on the fire. Martha, the sister of George the native scout, sees Ives and the dying Boyd in the outhouse, closes the door, and walks away. Boyd refuses to save himself by eating Ives corpse and dies.
Ravenous (1999 film)
1999