After scientists have accidentally spilled a deadly chemical into the ocean, a group of aliens offer to help humans eliminate the chemical. Agent Pillbox (John Ritter), while preparing for a meeting with the aliens, is shot and killed in a forest by an unseen assassin. The aliens have asked only a glass of water in return. However, the Russians, along with a rogue element in the CIA, would like to get to the aliens first because they have offered instead to provide a gun big enough to destroy a planet. FBI computers have found Bob Wilson (also played by Ritter), who looks just like Pillbox, the only one the aliens trust. However, Wilson is a meek office worker who is easily pushed around by a group of local bullies and by a milkman who was trying to seduce his wife. Tough guy government agent Nick Pirandello (James Belushi) is sent to recruit Wilson and escort him to the meeting. He meets Wilson at Wilsons home, with Russian agents close on his tail. Wilson thinks hes an intruder and tries ineffectively to attack him, culminating in a shoot-out with the Russians that devastates Wilsons house. After Parindello explains about the aliens, the pair head off by an indirect route to meet them near Washington, D.C. Wilson believes that Pirandello is a crazy kidnapper, and repeatedly tries to escape until he is convinced after seeing a piece of alien technology. Wilson is then willing to do the job, but lacks skills and confidence. When the pair meet corrupt CIA agents dressed as clowns, Pirandello tells Wilson that hes a sleeper "Super Agent". Wilson charges into battle and is knocked out with one punch. Pirandello defeats the clowns, but leads the waking/groggy Wilson to believe he did it. Wilson gains a new macho attitude. Pirandello, weakened by love for a dominatrix he meets in a bar in Pittsburgh, abandons the mission, leaving Wilson on his own. During a final shootout between a rogue CIA element and Wilson, Pirandello comes to his senses and rejoins the mission; together they defeat the others, including Pirandellos boss. Wilson meets with the aliens and receives the "good package" to save humanity. Wilson returns to his home, which has been repaired. With his new-found machismo, he deals with the bullies and the amorous milkman, bringing the film to an end.
Real Men (film)
1987