Teenager Jim Stark (Dean) is arrested and taken to the juvenile division of the police station for "plain drunkenness". At the station he meets John "Plato" Crawford (Mineo), who was brought in for shooting dead a litter of puppies, and Judy (Wood), who was brought in for curfew violation. The three each separately reveal their innermost frustrations to the officers; all three of them suffer from problems at home: Jim feels betrayed and anguished by his constantly bickering parents, Frank (Jim Backus) and Carol (Ann Doran), but even more so by his fathers milquetoast attitude and failure to stand up to Carol. His frustrations are made manifest to officer Ray Fremick (Edward Platt) when Jim is released to their custody. Judy is convinced that her father (William Hopper) ignores her because shes no longer a little girl, so she dresses up in racy clothes to get attention, which only causes her father to call her a "dirty tramp". Platos father abandoned them when he was a toddler, and his mother is often away from home, leaving Plato in the care of his housekeeper. On his first day at Dawson High, Jim again meets Judy and offers her a ride. Seemingly unimpressed by Jim at first, she declines and is picked up by her "friends", a gang of delinquents led by "Buzz" Gunderson (Corey Allen). Jim is shunned by the rest of the student body but befriends Plato, who comes to idolize him as a father figure. After a field trip to Griffith Observatory, Buzz provokes and challenges Jim to a knife fight. Unsatisfied by Jims unwillingness to fight back, Buzz suggests stealing some cars to have a "Chickie Run" at a seaside cliff. At home, Jim ambiguously asks his father for advice about defending ones honor in a risky, dangerous situation, but Frank instead advises him against confrontation of any kind. That night, during the chickie run, Buzz falls to his death when he is unable to exit his car in time. The rest of the gang flees, so they dont get caught.  Jim confides his involvement in the crash to his parents and considers turning himself in. When his mother declares they are moving again, Jim protests and pleads with his father to stand up for him, but Frank refuses. Jim attacks Frank in frustration, then storms off to the police station to confess, but he is turned away by the desk sergeant. Jim drives back home and finds Judy waiting for him. She apologizes for the way she treated him, citing peer pressure, and the two begin to fall in love. Agreeing that they will never go back to their respective homes, Jim suggests they visit the mansion Plato told him about. Meanwhile, Plato is intercepted by Buzzs gang who are convinced that Jim was the one who betrayed them to the police. They steal Plato’s notebook and run off; Plato retrieves his mother’s gun and leaves to warn Jim and Judy, where he finds them at the mansion. The three new friends act out a fantasy as a family. Plato then falls asleep, and Jim and Judy leave to explore the mansion, where they share their first kiss. Buzzs gang wake up Plato who, frightened and distraught, shoots at one of the members. When Jim returns, he attempts to restrain Plato, but he flees, accusing Jim of leaving him behind. Plato runs to the observatory and barricades himself inside as more police converge, including Fremick who, with Frank and Carol, was looking for Jim. Jim and Judy follow Plato into the observatory, where he persuades Plato to trade the gun for his red jacket. Jim removes the ammunition before returning it. Jim then convinces Plato to come outside, but the police notice that Plato still has the gun, so they shoot him out of self defense. Frank comforts his grieving son, vowing to be a stronger father. Now reconciled with his parents, Jim introduces them to Judy.
Rebel Without a Cause
1955