The movie begins with a prologue set in a U.S Army base somewhere in the Nevada Desert. An unknown group breaks into the facility, knocking out the guards and absconding with a top-secret project. The unseen leader of the group instructs his men to move the equipment to "where it all began": Third Street Elementary School. After pulling off one last big prank at Third Street Elementary School, which involves stealing the ice cream that Miss Finster had been hoarding and distributing it to the kids, T.J. Detweiler and his friends are excited about being done with the rest of the school year and starting summer vacation, but T.J. is unhappy, because his friends are all at summer camps in order to prepare for their future careers. Later, T.J. suspects that theres something going on inside the school after seeing a green light pour from the cafeteria and getting chased off by a guard. He sneaks around and sees a tractor beam levitating a safe. Panicking, he tries to tell his parents and the police, but no one believes him. When he gets Principal Peter Prickly to come to see whats going on, he is dematerialized. Out of options, T.J. uses his sister Beckys diary to blackmail her into driving to all the camps to pick his friends up. T.J. and his friends steal a box of documents, but when they find it filled with boring information, they accuse him of inventing a plot to drag them out of summer camp. However, their accusations are undercut by a tractor beam appearing and firing off from the schools roof, and agree to help T.J investigate at night. The next day, T.J. finds Prickys golf pants in a dumpster with a note requesting help in a pocket, so T.J. and his friends infiltrate the school that night to find Prickly. They witness the adults in the auditorium firing the tractor beam at the moon but are caught spying and flee. T.J. is captured and put in a storage room where Prickly is tied up. A man named Dr. Phillium Benedict comes in to talk to them, revealing himself to be an old friend of Pricklys from their early teaching years. After Benedict leaves, Prickly tells the story of how, back in the spring of 1968, Benedict became principal of Third Street School and moved to abolish recess in order to improve test grades. The plan didnt go over well, as it was met with angry teachers and parents protesting to reinstate recess, which Benedict refused to do. Prickly went to the superintendent as a means of recourse. While the superintendent assured the parents that the plan Benedict made would never be carried out, Benedict still refused to back down. The superintendent then demoted Benedict and promoted Prickly to principal. Benedict accused Prickly of stealing his job, which, along with his anti-recess views, caused his then-girlfriend, Muriel P. Finster to break up with him. Infuriated, Benedict ended his friendship with Prickly, quit teaching, and swore revenge on his now-former friend. Later, Prickly says, Benedict entered politics and went on to become Secretary of Education, but was fired by the president when he tried to abolish recess nationwide. T.J. and Prickly escape and enter Pricklys office where T.J. uses his confiscated walkie-talkie in Pricklys drawer to tells his friends about Benedicts plans to destroy summer vacation. T.J.s friends go through the box of documents again. Spinelli finds a date book that mentions lunar perigee, and Gretchen deduces that Benedict is trying to move the moons orbit via tractor beam when it is closest to the Earth. By drastically altering the moons orbit, Benedict, having cornered T.J. and Prickly, reveals to them that he can create a permanent ice age so kids will spend their summers studying inside instead of playing. T.J.s friends get his sister, Becky, to drive to the camps again, where they pick up all the children. Gus draws up the plans to attack the school while T.J. and Prickly escape the cage that Benedict has imprisoned them in. Gus plan works, and most of Benedicts mercenary guards and ninjas are incapacitated. All the kids pour into the auditorium. Another set of guards protects Benedict as he prepares to pull the lever. However, Muriel P. Finster arrives. After rejecting Benedict again, she brings the teachers and staff in and a fight breaks out. Prickly punches Benedict, but as Benedict slumps, he triggers the beam and Prickly cannot reverse it. T.J. tosses his baseball to Vince, whose accurate pitch destroys the beams core. The police arrest Benedict and his cronies for theft (Especially when it was government property), conspiracy, breaking and entering, and attempted terrorism. In the aftermath, T.J. and the other kids, the teacher and staff, and Becky are celebrated as a heroes and makes amends with his sister. T.J.s friends decide to spend the rest of the summer with him, stating that they have plenty of time to prepare for their futures, but only a little time left to just be kids. Before they head to the pond, T.J. thanks Prickly in person for protecting him from Benedict during their imprisonment. Prickly states that he should be the one doing the thanking, as T.J.s act of dragging Prickly into the whole ordeal reminded him of his true motivation to pursue teaching: to help kids. They acknowledge each other in mutual respect by using their respective nicknames. As T.J. heads to the pond with his friend, Prickly calls out at him that when September comes, T.J. will be under Pricklys discipline again, but T.J. replies that September is a long way off. The film ends with T.J. and his friends racing to the pond, with Prickly looking on and smiling.
Recess: School's Out
2001