Frank Moses, retired black-ops CIA agent, lives alone in Cleveland, Ohio. Lonely, Frank often chats on the phone with Sarah Ross, a worker at the General Services Administrations pension office in Kansas City, Missouri. He creates opportunities to talk to her by tearing up his pension checks and calling her to say they had never arrived. One night, a "wetwork" (assassination) squad raids Franks house and attempts to kill him, but he easily wipes them out. Knowing they have tapped his phone, he believes Sarah will be targeted. In Kansas City, as Sarah refuses to go with him, he forcibly ties her up and gags her with duct tape. Meanwhile, CIA agent William Cooper is assigned by his boss, Cynthia Wilkes, to hunt down and kill Frank. To find out who is targeting him, Frank tracks down his old associates for help. He goes to New Orleans, Louisiana, and visits his CIA mentor, Joe Matheson, who now lives in a nursing home. Joe tells Frank that the same hit squad murdered a reporter for The New York Times. Locked in a motel by Frank, Sarah escapes. Another agent, posing as a police officer, tries to kidnap her, but Frank returns in time. Cooper attacks them, but Frank tricks the police into arresting Cooper and escapes with Sarah. The two head to New York City and find clues left behind by the deceased reporter, which leads them to a hit list. They then find Marvin Boggs, another former black-ops agent and a paranoid conspiracy theorist. Marvin tells them the people on the list, including Frank and Marvin, are connected to a secret 1981 mission in Guatemala. Another person on the list, Gabriel Singer, is still alive. The trio tracks down Singer, who tells them that the mission involved extracting a person from a village. Singer is then assassinated by a helicopter-borne machine-gunner, and the team escapes as Cooper closes in. Frank goes to ex-Russian secret agent Ivan Simanov, who helps him infiltrate CIA headquarters. In the CIA archive, Henry, the records keeper, who has much respect for Frank, simply hands him the Guatemala file. Frank confronts Cooper in his office and the two have a vicious fight. Though victorious, Frank is shot during his escape. Having escaped an attempt on his life, Joe arrives and helps extract the team. They hide out in the home of former wetwork agent Victoria (Mirren), who treats Franks wound and joins the team. The file gives them clue to the next lead, Alexander Dunning, an illegal arms dealer, currently being protected by the FBI. Frank, Marvin and Joe enter Dunnings mansion, with Joe posing as a buyer from Djibouti, and Frank and Marvin disguised as bodyguards, while Victoria and Sarah keep watch outside. They interrogate Dunning, who reveals the target for extraction was the now–Vice President Robert Stanton (Julian McMahon), a Lieutenant in the United States Army at the time whose Senator father was able to organise his extraction from the field via Dunning. Stanton ordered the hit on the people who were involved in the operation to hide the fact that he was responsible for massacring a village of civilians, clearing house for his upcoming plans to run for President. Cooper and a team of FBI agents surround Dunnings mansion. Cooper tries to negotiate Franks surrender, and Frank tells him about the Vice Presidents treachery. The terminally ill Joe pretends to be Frank, walks outside, and is killed by sniper from the Vice Presidents personal hit squad. The confusion, as well as Victorias cover fire, buys the team enough time to leave the mansion, but Sarah is captured. They escape with the help of Ivan, who is Victorias old flame. Frank calls Cooper from his familys phone and warns him against harming Sarah, as he threatens to kill Coopers family, although it is hinted the threat wasnt genuine and Frank was only intent on scaring Cooper. The team, along with Ivan, kidnaps Stanton at a campaign fundraiser disguised as waiters, party guests, cooks, and Secret Service. Frank calls Cooper, offering to trade Stanton for Sarah. At the meeting point, Dunning arrives. After a short dialogue, Dunning injures Stanton, revealing himself and Cynthia Wilkes to be the masterminds behind the assassinations and the destruction of the village and that Stanton was only a scapegoat who was never involved with the crimes. Disgusted with Wilkes corruption, Cooper pretends to arrest Frank, but shoots and kills Wilkes. Marvin and Victoria kill Dunnings bodyguards, and Frank kills Dunning by crushing his windpipe. Cooper lets Franks team go. As they leave the scene, Frank and Sarah are eager to start a new life together, but Ivan reminds Frank of his favor. A few months later, Frank and Marvin are in Moldova with a stolen nuclear device. They flee from Moldovan Army troops with Marvin wearing a dress and in a wooden wheelbarrow being pushed by Frank.
RED (film)
2013