In the run up to Christmas, Lee Leander is arrested for stealing a bracelet from a New York City jewelry store. The Assistant District Attorney, John "Jack" Sargeant, is assigned to prosecute her. The trial begins just before Christmas, and rather than face a jury filled with the holiday spirit, Jack has the trial postponed on a technicality. When he hears Lee complaining to her lawyer about spending Christmas in jail, Jack feels guilty and asks bondsman Fat Mike to post bail. Fat Mike assumes that Jack wants to force Lee into an affair, and after freeing her he delivers Lee to Jacks flat. Discovering that Lee is a fellow Hoosier, (a native of Indiana), and that she has nowhere to spend Christmas, Jack offers to drop her off at her mothers house on his way to visit his own family. On the drive, Jack gets lost in Pennsylvania and the couple spends the night parked in a field. The next morning, they are arrested by the landowner for trespassing and destruction of property, and taken to an unfriendly justice of the peace. Lee starts a fire in his wastebasket as a distraction, and the pair flees. Lees mother, a malevolent embittered woman, has remarried, and does not want anything to do with her daughter, whom she considers a lost cause. Jack decides to take Lee home to spend Christmas with his family. She is warmly received by his cousin Willie, aunt Emma, and his mother, even after Jack reveals Lees past. On New Years Eve, Jack kisses Lee at a barn dance, and later that night his mother goes to Lees bedroom for a talk. She reveals that the family was poor during Jacks childhood, and that he worked hard to put himself through college. She asks Lee to give Jack up, rather than jeopardize his career, and Lee agrees. On the way back to New York via Canada (to bypass Pennsylvania), Jack tells Lee that he loves her, and tries to persuade her to jump bail, but she refuses. Back in New York, Jack tries to throw Lees case by acting harsh and aggressive to her and the jury. Jacks boss has been alerted to the affair, and secretly listens outside the courtroom. Realizing that Jack may damage his career, Lee insists on changing her plea to guilty. As she is led away, Jack wants to marry Lee on the spot. She refuses, saying that if he still feels the same way when she has served her sentence, and he has had time to consider his decision, they can marry.
Remember the Night
1940