In North Africa, CIA analyst Douglas Freeman (Jake Gyllenhaal) is briefing a newly arrived CIA agent in a district when a suicide attack kills the CIA agent and 18 African cilvilians. The target was a high-ranking police official, Abbas-i "Abasi" Fawal (Yigal Naor), who acts as a liaison for the United States and whose tasks include conducting interrogations and overseeing the application of techniques amounting to torture. Fawal escapes unscathed. Meanwhile, Egyptian-born Anwar El-Ibrahimi (Omar Metwally), a chemical engineer who lives in Chicago with his mother, his pregnant wife Isabella (Reese Witherspoon) and their young son, is presumed to have been linked to a violent organization by telephone records indicating that known terrorist Rashid placed several calls to Anwars cellphone. Returning to the United States from a conference in South Africa, he is detained by American officials against his will and sent to a secret detention facility near the location of the suicide attack depicted earlier, where he is subjected to interrogion and is also verbally and physically tortured. At the same time, Isabella is not informed and all records of his being on the flight from South Africa are erased, although records remain of his boarding the plane at Cape Town International Airport. For lack of more experienced staff, Freeman is assigned to observe the interrogation of Anwar, whose interrogator in turn is Fawal himself. After Freeman briefly questions Anwar, he is doubtful of Anwars guilt, but his corrupt boss, Corrine Whitman (Meryl Streep), insists that the detention continues, justifying such treatments as necessary to save thousands from becoming victims of terrorism. Growing worried about her husbands safety, Isabella travels to Washington, D.C. to see her old friend Alan Smith (Peter Sarsgaard), who now works as an aide to Senator Hawkins (Alan Arkin), and pleads with him to find out what has happened to her husband. According to Smith, Isabella is informed that there was a mix-up in Cape Town and Anwar had failed to board his plane, but she shows him her husbands credit card record, which shows that he made a purchase at the in-flight duty-free shop; this confirms that he was on the flight. Smith slowly pieces together details of Anwars detention but is unable to convince either the senator or Corrine Whitman, who had ordered the rendition, to release him, or to openly acknowledge that the rendition had taken place. After the senator advises Smith to let it go on the basis that its not the right time to start debating an extraordinary rendition because hes fighting to have a bill passed in Congress, he gives Isabella a phone number for an excellent lawyer he knows and advises her to call it, but she refuses. Upon hearing the confrontation from her office, his sympathetic secretary quietly tips Isabella off that Whitman will be visiting the following day. Isabella angrily confronts Whitman and Hawkins before being led out by security, only to go into labor in the hallway. Eventually, Anwar is able to confess that he advised a man named Rashid on how to make powerful nuclear devices and was promised $40,000 in return. Suspicious that its a false confession, Freeman asks where the money is and Anwar replies that it should have been delivered to him in South Africa but the courier never arrived. Freemans suspicions are confirmed when he has the names Anwar gives traced by Interpol and draws a blank. A quick Google search reveals that the names are of the Egyptian soccer team from the year Anwar left Egypt. Without the consent of his superiors, Freeman approaches the Minister of the Interior, and presents him with this finding, and also questions whether $40,000 would really be enough to persuade a man whose annual salary is $200,000 to risk his entire life, and that of his family. The Minister quotes Shakespeares The Merchant of Venice while making a point on the value of intelligence gathered through torture: I fear you speak upon the rack, Where men enforced do speak anything. Eventually, Freeman persuades the minister to authorise Anwars release, and sends him back to America via a clandestine ship to Spain. Freeman is contacted by Whitman, who franticly orders him to hand Anwar back to Fawal immediately. Instead, Freeman leaks the torte details to the press that turns into a worldwide scandal, thus ruining Whitman and Hawkin careers in the process. The film ends with Anwar arriving home and reuniting with Isabella, his son, and the familys newborn baby.
Rendition (film)
2007