During the summer in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, widow Sara Goldfarb spends her time watching infomercials. Meanwhile, her son Harry occasionally pawns her television set to fund his, his girlfriend Marions, and his best friend Tyrones drug use. After Sara receives a call that she has won a spot on a television game show, she becomes excited about attending it. To fit back into her red dress, the favorite of her deceased husband Seymours, she attempts to lose weight through unsuccessful diets. At the recommendation of a friend, she visits an unscrupulous physician who prescribes her a regimen of weight-loss amphetamines. She begins losing weight, and is excited by how much energy she has. Harry and Tyrone plan to sell heroin to make enough to live off; that summer, their small-time dealing business thrives. Harry and Marion plan to open up a dress shop for Marions designs, and Tyrone dreams of escaping the ghetto to make his mother proud. Sara and her friends wait expectantly every day for the game show invitation to arrive. With the extra money, Harry stops by to tell his mother he ordered her a new television set, but when he implores her to get off the amphetamines, she confesses that the only thing she has to live for anymore is the dream of looking glamorous on a television stage, and the extra attention she receives now from her friends. As Sara’s tolerance for the amphetamines increases, she craves the high she once had, while becoming frantic about the invitation. When she increases her dosage she develops amphetamine psychosis. During a drug deal, Tyrone is caught in a shootout between the two rival gangs. He flees the scene and is arrested. Harry has to use most of their earned money to post bail. The local supply of heroin becomes restricted, and they are unable to find any for either use or sale. Eventually, Tyrone hears of a large shipment coming, but the price is doubled and the minimum high. Harry, desperate, suggests Marion ask her psychiatrist, Arnold, for money in exchange for sex, straining their relationship. When the drug buy goes bad, Harry returns empty-handed to Marion. He departs after giving her the number of a pimp, Big Tim, who trades heroin for sex. Harry and Tyrone decide that to put their business back on track, they will drive to Florida to buy directly from the wholesaler there. After a series of horrifying hallucinations, Sara flees her apartment for the office of the casting agency in Manhattan, to confirm when she will be on TV. She is taken away by ambulance and committed to a psychiatric ward where she is subjected to degrading treatments. When none work, the physician induces a barely lucid Sara to approve electroconvulsive therapy. On the drive to Miami, Harry and Tyrone visit a hospital because of Harrys increasingly infected needle injection sites. The doctor notices the symptoms of drug abuse, and Harry and Tyrone are arrested. Back in New York, a desperate Marion has sex with the pimp to get heroin. Recognizing her addiction, he entices her with a bigger score of heroin if she returns that weekend for a party. Tyrone is taunted by racist prison guards whilst enduring manual labor. Harry’s infected arm is amputated. Sara undergoes violent electroshock therapy. Marion is humiliated as the subject of a graphic sex show. When Saras friends come to the hospital to visit, they are distraught by her almost vegetative state. Harry wakes emotionally distraught after the amputation, knowing that Marion will not be visiting him. Tyrone thinks of his mother in prison and suffers from drug withdrawal. Marion comes home from the show and lies on her sofa, clutching her score of heroin. Sara dreams that she is on television, and has won the grand prize, with Harry as the guest of honor.
Requiem for a Dream
2000