Alice and the others on the Umbrella Corporation freighter Arcadia, now face an attack by an assaulting fleet of tiltrotor V-22 Ospreys led by Alices former ally, Jill Valentine, resulting in the killing of many of the survivors in the ship. Alice is captured during the attack while the fates of Chris Redfield, Claire Redfield and K-Mart are left ambiguous. The story switches to a suburban Alice living with her husband, Todd, and her deaf daughter Becky. Zombies attack, revealing the suburbia was actually Raccoon City during the contamination incident. Alice and Becky manage to run away from the undead, with the help of Rain Ocampo, by letting them ride in her car. As the three escape, they are hit by a garbage truck, knocking Rain unconscious. Alice hides Becky, but is killed by a zombified Todd. Meanwhile, the real Alice awakens in an underground facility and is interrogated by Jill. During a power failure, Alice escapes her cell and the laser grid, finding herself in a simulation of Shibuya Square, Tokyo. Fighting her way out against zombies, she enters a control room filled with dead Umbrella employees and encounters Ada Wong, one of Albert Weskers top agents. Wesker appears on a screen, explaining that they no longer serve Umbrella and the power outage was staged by Weskers hacking into the facilitys computer mainframe. Wesker also reveals that the Red Queen, one of Alices arch-enemies, was reactivated after the Hive incident and now controls Umbrella. He furthermore explains that the facility is underwater, located in Kamchatka, Russia, and that it formerly served as a Soviet naval outpost. The facility was designed by Umbrella for manufacturing clones and creating simulated outbreaks to show the effect of the T-virus. Ada and Alice plan to rendezvous with a rescue crew organized by Wesker, which includes Leon Kennedy, Barry Burton, and Luther West (Alices former ally, who survived after the outbreak in Los Angeles). Leons team plants explosives near the entrance of the facility, which will detonate in two hours to ensure the facilitys destruction. The group plans to meet with Alice and Ada in the Raccoon City suburbia area. In a New York City simulation, Alice and Ada defeat two Axemen. Leon and his team enter a Moscow simulation (Red Square in front of the GUM façade), but they are cut off by a heavily armed Las Plagas undead horde, which has surrounded them. In the Suburban setting, Alice and Ada encounter Becky, who mistakes Alice for her clone mother, and is instantly attached to her. They also encounter the clones, which consists of Alices deceased allies; James "One" Shade, "evil" Rain Ocampo and Carlos Olivera, who are sent to capture them. During the shootout which was triggered by Ada, she gives Alice her smart glasses and her grappling hook so that she and Becky can find their way out, and they become separated. They encounter the "good" clone of Rain (who they met in Suburbia at the beginning) in the Moscow simulation (Arbatskaya metro station), and Alice gives her a weapon. She then rescues Leons surviving crew from the barrage of Las Plagas zombies and a giant Licker. Once united, the group heads toward the tunnel and reaches the submarine pens in the facility exit, but they are ambushed by Jills team. Becky is captured by the Licker, and "good" Rain is killed, breaking her neck after being thrown by the Licker. Alice rescues Becky, and also kills the Licker using a belt of grenades she found. Barry sacrifices himself in the process, holding the Umbrella operatives off long enough to ensure the others escape. Using Leons bombs, they finally manage to destroy the facility, allowing Leon and Luther to escape, while Alice and Becky also survive, having used the ventilation system. On the surface, their snowmobile is knocked over by Jill Valentines Oscar-Class submarine. Jill and "bad" Rain confront the group with Ada being held as their hostage. Jill and Alice begin fighting each other, while Rain - now also enhanced with the Las Plagas parasite, granting her superhuman strength and healing - fights Leon and Luther. Alice is able to tear the mind-controlling scarab off Jills chest, returning her to her normal self. Unfortunately, Rain also kills Luther in the process, while Leon is knocked out. Realizing that they cant kill Rain, Alice shoots the ice under her feet and she is dragged down by the swimming zombies from the undersea installation to be devoured, killing her for good. Alice, Ada, Becky, Leon, and Jill travel to Weskers headquarters, a heavily barricaded and fortified White House, staffed by the remainders of the U.S. Armed Forces. Alice meets Wesker in the heavily barricaded Oval Office, where he injects her with the T-virus, returning her superhuman abilities; as only Alice successfully bonded with it, she is the ultimate weapon. On the roof, Wesker explains that the Red Queen is trying to wipe out humanity, and all of the remaining uninfected humans are in the base; it is humanitys last stand. A pull-away shows the U.S. Military defending the White House alongside the remaining Umbrella Corp. soldiers against enormous hordes of T-virus abominations swarming all over the walls.
Resident Evil: Retribution
2012