Alice (Milla Jovovich) wakes up disoriented in a mansion. Wandering through its halls, she is forced to escape several security traps. However, she is eventually killed by a bounding mine hidden in the floor. Her body is dumped into a pit filled with dozens of Alice copies and is revealed to be one of many clones being produced inside of an underground facility whose entrance above ground is surrounded by thousands of zombies. Despite the best efforts of the bio-tech company Umbrella Corporation to cover up the contamination of The Hive and the release of the T-virus to the surface, going so far as to authorize the bombing of Raccoon City, the T-virus has spread around the world. As the virus spread, it affected not only humans, but other animals as well, and the environment deteriorated, turning cities into desolate landscapes and the wilderness into wastelands. The real Alice (from whom the clones are made) wanders the wastelands of the Southwestern U.S. On her travels, she finds a dead mans diary which states that there is an uninfected area in Alaska. She later begins to realize that she has developed telekinetic abilities due to the experiments performed on her. Meanwhile, Dr. Alexander Isaacs (Iain Glen), former head of Project Alice and the head of the North American Umbrella facility seen earlier (based in Nevada), considers Alices recapture to be a top priority, since she has the ability to bond with the T-virus and not suffer mutation. He tries to persuade the Umbrella board, operating via holograms from the worldwide Umbrella facility, that he can use her blood to develop a permanent cure as well as tame the infected zombies. The new Umbrella chairman Albert Wesker (Jason OMara) orders Isaacs to use the clones to create a cure, and he refuses to authorize Alices recapture until they are informed of her location. Meanwhile, a convoy of survivors led by Claire Redfield (Ali Larter) travels across the country in search of supplies. The convoy includes Raccoon City survivors Carlos Oliveira (Oded Fehr) and L.J. (Mike Epps), along with new survivors K-Mart (Spencer Locke), Mikey (Christopher Egan), Chase (Linden Ashby), Otto (Joe Hursley) and Nurse Betty (Ashanti Douglas), among others. While searching a motel for supplies, L.J. is bitten by a zombie, which he keeps secret. The next morning the convoy is attacked by crows that had been feeding on the infected. The crows almost overwhelm the convoy, killing Nurse Betty and Otto and taking out the flamethrower operator, causing the weapon to careen out of control. Alice finally appears and saves Carlos and the others from a fiery death, using her telekinesis to fill the sky with fire, killing the crows and leaving her unconscious. After recovering, Alice is introduced to Claire and gives her the diary she found, and she and Carlos then convince Claire to take her convoy to Alaska. Dr. Isaacs attempts to domesticate the infected have led to a new zombie breed that remembers basic things, such as how to use phones and cameras. Weskers security officer, Captain Alexander Slater (Matthew Marsden), is adamant about Isaacs disregard for Umbrellas regulations. Wesker, in private, informs Slater to keep watch on Isaacs actions, and tells Slater that if Issacs disobeys orders, Slater should kill Isaacs. Umbrella triangulates Alices location based on the signal sent out by her telekinetic abilities. Dr. Isaacs has a crate of his new zombies sent to ambush the convoy, against Weskers specific orders. L.J. succumbs to his infection and bites Carlos. Most of the convoy, including Mikey and Chase, are killed in the ambush. Umbrella tries to shut Alice down remotely, but she breaks free from their programming and continues to fight. She finds Isaacs at the scene, and he becomes infected as he flees via helicopter. Alice and K-Mart use Isaacs computer to track the helicopters flight path, leading them to Umbrellas underground location. The convoy heads over to the site, which is surrounded by thousands of zombies. Carlos sacrifices himself by plowing his truck into the zombie mob and blowing the rig apart, giving Alice and Claire time to load survivors into the helicopter. Alice decides to stay behind. Ordered by Wesker to terminate Isaacs, Slater arrives with a group of commandos and finds the scientist locked in his lab, injecting himself with massive doses of anti-virus in an attempt to counteract the infection. Slater reveals that his employment is terminated and shoots him, triggering a mutation that transforms Isaacs into a monstrous creature. Despite retaining his intelligence and thought, Isaacs kills Slater and all the facility employees, but is confined to the labs lower levels. Entering the facility, Alice meets a holograph of the Red Queens "sister" AI, the White Queen (Madeline Carroll). The White Queen informs Alice that her blood is the cure to the T-virus, while also defending the Red Queens prior actions. She then tells Alice about Dr. Isaacs. Alice agrees to deal with him. On her way to the labs lower levels, Alice discovers one of her clones, still in development. The clone awakens, but appears to die from shock shortly after. Alice soon discovers a replica of the Racoon City mansion deep within the complex and finds Isaacs. The two engage in a fight, eventually leading them to a replica of The Hives laser corridor, where Isaacs is killed by the laser-defense system. Just as Alice is about to meet the same fate, the system is deactivated by her clone, whom is revealed to still be alive. Later, in Tokyo, Japan, Wesker, who is the head of the Tokyo Umbrella facility, informs the rest of the Umbrella chairmen (all holograms) that the North American facility has been lost. Alices hologram makes an appearance, declaring that she is coming for him, and shes bringing some of her "friends." Standing beside her clone, Alice looks out onto a huge number of pods containing numerous developing clones.
Resident Evil: Extinction
2010