Dr. James Marcus, the original founder of the Umbrella Corporation, had a daughter who was dying of premature aging. Desperate to save her, Marcus discovered the T-virus. Unfortunately, the virus had the side effect of sudden and uncontrollable mutation; in Cape Town, South Africa, a boy dies in a cable car ascending to Table Mountain, then reanimates and kills the other passengers. Marcus tried to have the program shut down, despite protests from his colleague Dr. Alexander Isaacs (Iain Glen). When Marcus refused, Isaacs ordered Albert Wesker to kill him. The Red Queen is then created using childhood images of Marcus daughter. Some time after the events of the previous film, Alice awakens in the now-ruined White House after being betrayed once again by Wesker. While she is searching for survivors, the Red Queen appears and tells Alice she must return to the Hive, over 400 miles west on I-64 in Raccoon City, within 48 hours. The Umbrella Corporation has developed an airborne antivirus, which can kill every organism infected by the T-virus (which may or may not include Alice), and is just waiting for the remaining few thousand humans to be wiped out. When asked why she is betraying her creators, the Red Queen says that she will explain once Alice arrives at the Hive. On her way to Raccoon City, Alice is captured by Isaacs — learning the one she previously killed was just a clone — though she manages to escape his convoy. Alice later arrives in Raccoon City and is ambushed by a group of survivors, consisting of Doc, Abigail, Christian, Cobalt, Razor, and Alices friend Claire Redfield, who survived the attack on Arcadia. With Isaacs convoy approaching, trailed by a horde of zombies, the group prepares for battle. They defeat the convoy, retrieve Isaacs few human captives and burn the horde, though Cobalt is killed. With more undead on the way and no defenses left, Alice and crew head for the Hive entrance, located at the bottom of the crater from the nuclear bomb dropped on the city. Wesker, having taken control of the Hive, releases mutated guard dogs, killing Christian and a freed captive. Inside the Hive, the Red Queen appears to Alice and explains her reason for betraying Umbrella. She reveals that a video was uploaded to her program which contained the recording of Isaacs explaining to Umbrellas executives the plan to release the T-virus, cleansing the world of man-made catastrophes while saving the rich and powerful in cryogenic capsules hidden in the Hive, and later rebuild the world in their image. The Red Queen program is in conflict, as she can never hurt an Umbrella employee but also must value remaining human life, which is why she enlists Alices help in order to stop Isaacs. Before proceeding onwards, Alice is silently warned by The Red Queen that someone in her group is a spy for Umbrella. Navigating the Hive, the group encounter several traps, resulting in the deaths of Abigail and Razor along with the remaining freed captive. Alice and Doc plant bombs throughout the Hive taken from the leftover equipment of the original team to investigate the Hive. Alice confronts the real (tech-upgraded) Isaacs, whereupon she is held at gunpoint by Doc — Umbrellas spy — while Claire is captured by Wesker. A cryogenic capsule opens, releasing Alicia Marcus, Umbrellas co-leader and Marcus daughter. Isaacs reveals to Alice that she is actually a clone of Alicia, before going on to explain his plan in eliminating the pair so that he can assume full control of Umbrella. Though Issacs is the co-founder of Umbrella, Alicia points out that Wesker is merely an employee and proceeds to "fire" him, allowing the Red Queen to crush his legs with a security door. Doc tries to shoot Alice, but he finds his gun empty — as Alice had earlier deduced his treachery — and Claire executes him. After giving Wesker the deadmans switch to the bombs she planted, Alice and Claire pursue Isaacs while Alicia willingly stays behind to review her childhood memories with her father. Upon catching up to Isaacs, Alice and Claire fight him as the trio are lifted back up to the Hive. Isaacs overpowers Claire and attacks Alice in the Laser Corridor. Alice manages to dodge the lasers before re-engaging Isaacs, eventually beating him when she secretly activates a grenade in his pocket. She escapes to the surface with the anti-virus, but Isaacs reboots and follows; he catches her just as shes about to release the antivirus. Before he can kill Alice, however, Isaacs is confronted and instantly killed by his clone, which Alice encountered en route to Raccoon City; the clone is then devoured by the undead. The distraction allows Alice to release the antivirus, killing all of the undead around her before she passes out. Wesker simultaneously drops the deadmans switch, destroying the Hive along with the hibernating Umbrella elite; Alicia and Wesker are killed in the process. Claire wakes Alice, who survived because the antivirus killed only the T-virus within her body, not the healthy cells. The Red Queen gives Alice an upload of all of Alicias memories, granting her a childhood. Alice travels into Manhattan, saying that the antivirus, carried only by the winds, will take years to reach all corners of the globe. Until then, says Alice, her mission is not finished.
Resident Evil: The Final Chapter
2017