On December 9, 1993, when Curt Reynolds (J. Trevor Edmond) steals his fathers security key card, he and his girlfriend, Julie Walker (Melinda Clarke), decide to explore the military base where his father works. Using the card, they sneak into a hangar and observe Curts father, Col. John Reynolds (Kent McCord), Col. Peck (James T. Callahan) and Lt. Col. Sinclair (Sarah Douglas) overseeing an experiment with a deceased body. The corpse is exposed to 2-4-5 Trioxin gas, which re-animates the corpse into a zombie. The military hopes to use the zombies in combat as nigh-unstoppable soldiers. However, the zombies are impossible to control as they have a terrible hunger for human brains that causes them to constantly attack. To deal with the zombies vicious nature, Sinclair has a plan to permanently attach the zombies to exoskeletons that will also immobilize them when they are not in battle. Reynolds prefers to use a method referred to as "paretic infusion" to paralyze the zombie until it is needed. This is accomplished by firing a chemical projectile into the forehead of the zombie that causes an endothermic reaction that freezes the zombies brain and temporarily immobilizes it. When the paretic infusion method is tested on the zombie in the lab, it is successful for only a few moments before the effect wears off much faster than was expected; the zombie breaks free and attacks a scientist by biting his fingers off and then bashing his head against a wall until he is killed. Infected by the zombies bite, the scientist almost immediately re-animates and attacks one of the other technicians. The initial zombie and the reanimated scientist are then paralyzed with bullets and the survivors in the room are quarantined. Reynolds is removed from the project for his failure and is reassigned to Oklahoma City, while Sinclair is promoted to head of the project. Some time later, Col. Reynolds informs Curt that theyll be moving again (something theyve done a dozen times in Curts life already) and Curt refuses. Angrily, he storms out of home, riding off on his motorcycle with Julie. While they are speeding down the road, Julie playfully grabs Curts crotch, causing him to lose control of the motorcycle. He veers into the path of an oncoming truck, swerves and slams into the guard rail. Julie is thrown from the bike and into a telephone pole; the impact breaks her neck and kills her. Distraught, Curt brings Julies corpse back to the military base. Using his fathers key card, he accesses the Trioxin gas to reanimate her. This leads to Julie & Curt dealing with the effects of Julie being dead - not feeling pain and having no desire to eat normal food - and what they are to do about her condition. After leaving the base Julie gets very hungry and Curt stops by a store. A gang of four Mexicans talk about her, Curt gets angry and hits one of them by mistake. The shopkeeper has a gun; when things go bad one of the gang fights over the gun, shooting the shopkeeper. Julie then bites the man who shot him. The alarm goes off and the gang runs off, shooting Curts bike before leaving. While Curt and Julie are in the van, the wounded shopkeeper asks for help. As Curt drives the van, Julie is overcome by her hunger for brains and attacks the shopkeeper, eating some of his brains before Curt stops her. The gang chases Julie and Curt through the city, not realizing what is happening to their infected friend. Julie and Curt decide to hide from the gang in the sewers, where they encounter Riverman, a vagrant who takes them in and hides them. He gives Curt a coin, and tells him "if you meet someone, do them some good, then tell them to pass it on." Julie discovers that extreme pain seems to temporarily make the cravings to feed on humans go away. She pierces and mutilates her flesh with various items of junk found around Rivermans lair, until she is adorned with spikes, nails, and shards of glass sticking out of her flesh, giving her an extremely unsettling appearance. The gang eventually tracks Julie and Curt down. Julie seduces the gang leader and attacks and kills him and then uses her new decorations to stab, beat, and otherwise kill the rest of the gang. Julies body starts to become accustomed to the pain over time, and she turns on Riverman, infecting and killing him. Things seem hopeless for Curt, with Julies current state and the re-animation of the gang, when the military arrive and neutralizes all of the zombies (including Julie). When all of the zombies are captured, Curt realizes Julie is going to be used as a weapon and goes into a rage, freeing the zombies which then kill the soldiers. In the commotion the base is set on fire and Curt is bitten by a zombie. Curts father tries to get Curt to leave but he realizes that by doing this he would be abandoning Julie, and he knows that he is infected. So, Curt and Julie go to the furnace to die together. Julie asks where they are, Curt says "where we belong" they kiss one last time as they die by immolation.
Return of the Living Dead 3
1993