A new generation of nerd students now rule on campus at early-90s Adams College. The Alpha Betas are respectful of the nerds prominence, some even wishing their fraternity could have a better academic record. Everything changes when a successful but reprehensible businessman, Orrin Price (Morton Downey, Jr.), becomes a member of the Adams College Board of Regents. A new generation of jocks has also just come to Adams, including Orrins nerd-hating son. Former Alpha Beta Stan Gable, now a motorcycle police officer, is installed as the new Dean of Students by Orrin Price. Lewis, who chairs Adams Computer Science Department, has been distancing himself from his nerd past by growing a ponytail and asking people to call him "Lew" rather than Lewis. His nephew Harold, now a student at Adams, is surprised at his uncles behavior, pointing out that in his day Lewis was the "George Washington of nerds". Betty, now married to Lewis and also an art professor at Adams College, tries to remind him that she fell in love with him because he had the courage to be himself. But Lewis is more interested in becoming friends with the new dean, not noticing that Stan Gable hopes to break up his marriage and win back Betty. Meanwhile, Harold and his friend pledge Lambda Lambda Lambda, whose group now includes an obese kilt-wearing English inductee and a Korean Elvis impersonator, who emphasizes that he is South Korean when asked about his dixie accent. Harold successfully makes it through the Tri-Lams "rush week". However, a barbeque celebrating the new members is disrupted by Alpha Betas in ski masks. More harassment comes, and the Tri-Lams look for legal help, but have a hard time finding a suitable alumni due to most of them getting technical jobs. However, one alumni is an attorney, Dudley "Booger" Dawson. Booger warns Lewis about the harassment, but leaves in disgust when he sees Betty and Lewis socializing with Stan, calling Lewis a "self hater". Lewis reaches out to Stan to help defend the Tri-Lambs, but Stan says no. Lewis angrily reminds Stan that he was forgiving of their rocky past and even defended him when others were telling him Stan was worthless. But Stan says that he is not Lewis friend and that Lewis will always be a nerd. This betrayal finally spurs Lewis to once again embrace his nerd self. He arranges bail for the arrested Tri-Lambs by putting up his house as collateral. He then calls upon all nerds, those on campus and in the city, who are sympathetic to their cause to participate in a massive nerd strike. Many of the citys basic utilities and services become crippled. To end the strike, Price decides to frame Lewis for embezzling college funds and harvesting marijuana in the basement of the Tri-Lam house. Stan thinks Orrin Price has gone too far, and remembering his law enforcement past, cannot fathom robbery and illegal drugs, yet does not object to Prices actions. The strike is called off after it is public that Lewis was arrested. Betty then confronts Stan about getting Lewis released, even offering herself to him. Stan becomes deeply ashamed, saying he still has a little pride left. Many of Lewis old Tri-Lamb friends as well as his father have returned to support him, despite Lewis believing they would never forgive him for denying his nerd self. When the trial begins, things look bad for Lewis; the judge denies all of Boogers arguments and says that Lewis is guilty. After introspection, Stan has a change of heart and testifies against Price, admitting that he has proof that Price framed Lewis for the theft and also planted the marijuana. Stan also admits that he is a nerd and has always wanted to read books and learn as much as possible, but his family always discouraged it. Price is arrested, and the charges against Lewis are dismissed. The Tri-Lambs are cleared, and the Alpha Betas are defeated once again, this time losing their Adams fraternity charter. Stan feels it best that he resign as Dean of Students, but Lewis convincingly argues Stan to stay on. The nerds accept Stan as one of their own, once again guaranteeing nerd freedom at Adams College.
Revenge of the Nerds III: The Next Generation
1992