Best friends and nerds Lewis Skolnick and Gilbert Lowe enroll in Adams College to study computer science. The Alpha Betas, a fraternity that includes most of the Adams football team, carelessly burn down their house, and urged by Coach Harris, take over the freshmen dorms. Dean Ulich designates temporarily living space in the gymnasium, and allows the freshmen to rush the fraternities. Lewis, Gilbert, and several other nerds fail to join fraternities, but are able to secure a dilapidated house on campus and repair to shape. The Alpha Betas, led by star quarterback Stan Gable, are irked by the nerds success, and Stan sets his fellow members to pull pranks against the nerds. The nerds try to get campus police to help, but they are bounded by the Greek Council that adjudicates all such pranks, of which Stan is currently president. The nerds decide to seek membership on the Greek Council by joining a national fraternity. The only one that considers them is the black fraternity Lambda Lambda Lambda (Tri-Lambs), led by U.N. Jefferson. Jefferson is wary of their application but agrees to a probationary period. The nerds set up a large party with the Omega Mu sorority, similarly made up of nerds including Gilberts girlfriend Judy, and invite Jefferson to attend. The party is dull until Booger provides them with high quality marijuana. Suddenly, the Alpha Betas and the Pi Delta Pis, the sorority which Stans girlfriend Betty Childs belongs to, disrupt the party with a sounder of swine. The nerds get back at both groups by pulling similar pranks. Jefferson is impressed with the nerds tenacity against the hazing, and grants them full membership. The nerds go to appeal to the Council, but Gable remains indifferent. The nerds realize the only way to get the Council to help is to put one of their own as president, which they can do by winning the Greek Games during homecoming. Working along with the Omega Mus, the Tri-Lambs are able to use their wits to hold close to the Alpha Betas/Pi Delta Pis during the athletic events. At the charity event, the nerds readily outsell the Alpha Betas by offering pies with naked pictures of Betty and other Pi Delta Pis on the bottom. During this, Lewis, who has fallen in love with Betty, steals Stans costume and tricks her into having sex with him. Betty is surprised when Lewis reveals his identity, but later admits to Stan that she is "in love with a nerd". Finally, the nerds readily win the musical competition with a techno-computer-driven musical production, winning the overall games. Lewis immediately nominates Gilbert as the new Council president. Coach Harris lambasts the Alpha Betas for losing to the nerds, and Stan leads them in destroying the Tri-Lamb house. The nerds become despondent, and Gilbert decides to barge into the middle of the homecoming pep rally to address his complaints. The Alpha Betas try to stop him, but then Jefferson and the other national Tri-Lambs arrive to intimidate the players, giving Gilbert the opportunity to give a rousing speech about being discriminated as nerds and standing up to that. Lewis and the other Tri-Lambs, several alumni, and even Betty join in as they cheer Gilbert on, soundly shaming the Alpha Betas. Dean Ulich instructs Coach Harris that the Tri-Lambs will be living in the Alpha Beta house, while the Alpha Betas can live in the gym until they can repair the Tri-Lamb house.
Revenge of the Nerds
1987