Oliver Courtney (Basil Rathbone) is an arrogant composer who lets other people write songs he takes credit for. Bob Sommers (Bing Crosby) writes his tunes with Billy Starbuck (Oscar Levant). At the night of a social Christmas party, Oliver introduces Bobs song "What Would Shakespeare Have Said?" as his own. Later that night, Oliver thanks Bob for his loyalty and offers him a contract for $50 a week for three years. He refuses, saying he would rather have a catboat to visit his uncle at his river hotel, called Nobodys Inn. After his lyric writer dies, Oliver finds a replacement in Cherry Lane (Mary Martin). She is reluctant about being a ghost writer, but accepts his offer. He is satisfied with her first lyric. She becomes ambitious to write better lines, but is not able to concentrate at home, and it is suggested she move to a small and quiet place. Meanwhile, Bob and Cherry meet several times, without knowing they are working for the same employer. She does not think highly of him. To work in a perfect environment, Cherry travels to Tarrytown and stays at Nobodys Inn. Bob decides to give the inn a visit at the same time, and they are shocked to run into each other yet again. They soon become acquainted and actually start liking each other. They even compose their own song together. However, because they are not allowed to tell who they are working for, they do not find out they are colleagues. She becomes mad at him when he plays the song she wrote the lines for and states he wrote it himself. Bob is confused and travels back to town to resign. Cherry has come to office as well to inform her boss she thinks someone has stolen his lines. They realize they were working together all along. Bob and Cherry make up and decide to start their own music composing careers. After a few unsuccessful auditions, Bob agrees to start a band. They audition for Mr. Westlake (William Frawley), but he is only interested in Cherry. He offers her a job as a nightclub singer, but she is loyal to the band and rejects his offer. Bob notices it is a great opportunity for Cherry and gives her his consent to work for Westlake. He takes his job back as Olivers ghost writer and raises $200 so Cherry can premiere with the song they wrote together at Nobodys Inn. However, she is unhappy at her new job and is helped by Bob to get out of her contract. Oliver feels sympathetic toward them and persuades them not to walk away by announcing the song is not written by him. After announcing they will soon marry, Bob and Cherry perform their song.
Rhythm on the River
1940