In 2013, on an airplane bound for Seattle, Carter reveals to Faith that he has watched Samara Morgan’s cursed videotape. Faith tells another passenger, Kelly, who reveals she has seen the tape too. She asks Carter if he made a copy and, after learning he hasnt, the aeroplane begins to malfunction. Samara comes for Carter, then causes the plane to crash. Two years later in 2015, Gabriel Brown, a college professor, buys an old VCR once owned by Carter, discovering the videotape inside. Elsewhere, Julia Black sees her boyfriend Holt Anthony off to college but becomes concerned when he falls out of contact. She is inspired to find him when a panicked girl, Skye Johnson contacts her, asking for Holt’s whereabouts. Julia meets Gabriel and finds a group of people known as "The Sevens", who are involved in an experiment involving the cursed video, watching and filming themselves, before passing the task to another person, called a “tail”. Julia recognizes Skye, who takes her to her apartment to have her watch the video, but Holt warns her not to. Julia locks herself in the bathroom as Samara kills Skye, her tail having been late. Holt reveals that he has watched the tape as well and has twelve hours left. Unwilling to let Holt die, Julia watches his copy and when she picks up the phone, she experiences a vision of a door. The phone burns a mark on her hand. Gabriel notices Julia’s copy of the video cannot be copied and is larger than usual. He discovers extra images within the tape and Julia watches the new footage, which features a mysterious woman: she realizes they must cremate Samaras physical remains. Gabriel sends them to the town Sacrament Valley, where Samara was given a proper burial after the residents of Moesko Island refused to accept the remains. He realizes the mark on Julia’s hand is Braille, translates it, and goes to warn them. Julia and Holt find an unmarked tomb, but when they break in, they find it empty. They are caught and taken to a blind man named Galen Burke, who claims Samara’s body was entombed by the local priest but a flood came, leading the priest to bury her in a potters field outside town. Heading for the field, Julia and Holt are stopped due to a car crash and learn Gabriel was involved. He tries to warn Julia of his discovery but is fatally electrocuted by a falling utility pole. After experiencing a vision of Samara’s birth mother Evelyn, Julia and Holt return to town. Julia goes to the church and discovers a hidden chamber beneath the bell tower, finding evidence that Evelyn was imprisoned there whilst pregnant, held in captivity by the priest after being raped before she escaped eight months into the pregnancy. Julia visits Burke and explains her findings. He attacks her, revealing he was not only the priest but Samara’s biological father and had blinded himself to escape the reach of his daughter’s powers. Julia pushes him down the stairs, temporarily incapacitating him. Holt rushes to Burkes house, where he is knocked unconscious. Julia is drawn to a room in the house where she discovers Samara’s skeleton behind a wall. Burke appears and tries to choke her to death to prevent her from cremating her remains, which he claims would unleash an unspeakable evil upon the world. He also reveals that Julia was the twelfth person to have attempted to cremate her remains; the previous ones have been killed by Burke. Suddenly, a swarm of cicadas fly in, summoning Samara through Julia’s phone. Samara removes Burke’s blindness and promptly kills him. Holt recovers and rushes to Julias aid. That night, he and Julia cremate Samara’s corpse, in an attempt to appease her spirit once and for all, and return home. While Julia is in the shower, Holt notices a voicemail from Gabriel, who warns him of the Braille, which Holt begins to translate. In the bathroom, Julia peels away the skin where the mark was, revealing grey skin underneath. She begins to cough up black hair, from which a cicada is born. Meanwhile, Julias copy of the cursed video is sent to everyone on her contact list, which becomes viral, despite Holts futile attempts to disconnect the computer. As his computer glitches, the Braille translation is revealed to be “rebirth”, as Samara is successfully reborn in Julia, seeing Samaras face in her mirror instead of her own.
Rings (2017 film)
2017