During the American Civil War, Col. Cord McNally, has left his close friend, Lt. Ned Forsythe, in charge of the Union troops on a Union army payroll train. However, Confederates led by Capt. Pierre Cordona, and Sgt. Tuscarora Phillips hijack the train. Their scheme uses a very elaborate plan which suggests that the Confederates must have gotten detailed inside informations about the transport. During the robbery, Ned is fatally injured, and Cord personally takes up the pursuit. His squad is spread thinner and thinner, until Cord is left on his own, and Pierre and his men capture him. Cord tricks them by leading them into a Union camp and raising the alarm. As the Confederates flee, Cord overpowers Pierre and Tuscarora. He questions the pair about the identity of the traitor who sold them the information about the train, but they give him no information and are imprisoned. Nevertheless, the three men gain a deep mutual respect for each other, and after the war ends. Cord visits Pierre and Tuscarora as they are being released. Cord asks them once more about the traitors. Unfortunately they dont know the traitors names and can only provide physical descriptions. Cord then tells Pierre and Tuscarora that if they should ever come across these men again, to contact him through a friend of his, Pat Cronin who is the sheriff of Blackthorne in Texas. Tuscarora is on his way to Rio Lobo, Texas where he grew up. Some time later, Cord is contacted by Pat on instructions from Pierre, who is staying at the local hotel. When he arrives in Blackthorne, he meets a young woman, Shasta Delaney, who is an assistant to a medicine showman, who is wishing to report the murder of her employer that was committed by a deputy of Rio Lobos sheriff, "Blue Tom" Hendricks. Pat explains that he cannot intervene because Rio Lobo is outside his jurisdiction. Shortly afterwards, a posse from Rio Lobo arrives and wants to take Shasta away. Shasta accuses their leader, "Whitey" Carter, as the murderer she is referring to. When one of the posse aims a gun at Pat, Shasta shoots Whitey from under the table, resulting in a shoot-out. Pat, Cord, and Pierre finish off the posse. Pierre, who identifies Whitey as one of the traitors Cord is looking for, tells him that Tuscarora had contacted him and told him that Tuscaroras father, and other ranchers from Rio Lobo are being bullied by a man named Ketcham, who installed Blue Tom as his sheriff after he killed the previous incumbent. Cord, Pierre, and Shasta go to Rio Lobo, where they find the people living in terror of Blue Tom, and his men. Blue Tom has Tuscarora arrested on trumped-up charges. They go to get help from Tuscaroras father, Old Man Philips. Cord, Pierre, and Philips sneak into Ketchams ranch in order to take him as a hostage, and McNally discovers that Ketcham is really Union Sergeant Major Ike Gorman, the second traitor he was searching for. McNally forces Ketcham to sign the title deeds of the ranches back to their rightful owners, then the men retreat to Rio Lobo, where they order Hendricks and his men to vacate the town jail. They take over the building for cover, freeing Tuscarora, while Pierre goes for the Cavalry. Meanwhile, Tuscaroras girlfriend Maria Carmen, and her friend, Amelita, lend assistance. For that, Hendricks slashes Amelitas face, and Amelita swears to Cord that she will kill Hendricks. Ketchams men capture Pierre and offer to trade Cardona for Ketcham. In the meantime, word spreads of the trade and several ranchers turn up to help, knowing that, if McNally fails, the town will have gained nothing from the returned deeds. During the prisoner exchange, Cordona dives from the bridge into the river where Tuscarora is hiding. McNally yells out that Ketcham is now bankrupt, having signed the deeds back, so the furious sheriff guns Ketcham down, and in turn McNally shoots Hendricks in the leg. McNally then gets shot in his own leg by one of the deputies, and is dragged back into the cantina by Philips. After a failed attempt to blow up the cantina Cords force is in, the remaining bandits are outflanked by the rest of the townspeople, who have rallied to help. Blue Toms men realize that all is lost, and they flee. Blue Tom shoots at them, but he has been using his rifle as a crutch and, with its muzzle clogged with dust, it explodes in his face as he fires it. As he stumbles to his horse, Amelita guns him down, thus keeping her promise and liberating the town from its final menace.
Rio Lobo
1970