Tom Ripley is involved in an art forgery scheme in Berlin, in partnership with a thuggish British gangster named Reeves. After a violent argument results in Ripley killing one of his "customers", he gives the money to Reeves but keeps the artwork for himself, curtly informing Reeves that their partnership is over. Three years later, Ripley is living in a lush villa in Veneto with his wife Luisa, a beautiful harpsichordist. Invited by a neighbour to a party, Ripley overhears the host, Jonathan Trevanny, insulting his taste and making a guarded reference to his questionable past. Ripley briefly confronts him, then sullenly leaves the party. Reeves resurfaces, much to Ripleys annoyance, asking him to eliminate a rival mobster. Remembering the slight, Ripley recommends that an amateur be hired to do it – Trevanny, a law-abiding art framer who is dying of leukemia. Reeves offers a bewildered Trevanny the job. Knowing that he doesnt have long to live and that the money could be left to his wife and son upon his death, Trevanny reluctantly agrees to perform the hit, which he assumes will be a one-time-only assignment. However, Reeves blackmails Trevanny into taking on another assassination, this time a much more complicated one on a train. A panicking Trevanny freezes up on the train, but Ripley appears unexpectedly and intervenes in the nick of time. After the two of them dispatch the target and his two bodyguards in the trains toilet, Trevanny forms an uneasy friendship with Ripley and returns home. He then vainly attempts to persuade his wife Sarah that he won his money from playing roulette after his hospital visit in Berlin. The mobsters associates come to Italy seeking revenge, killing Reeves at his favourite restaurant and leaving his body in the boot of their car. They storm Ripleys villa but are snared in Ripleys traps. Ripley cleverly terminates each of them, with Trevannys increasingly eager assistance. Trevanny returns home to find two more assassins holding Sarah captive. At the same time, Ripley spots the killers silver BMW outside in the bushes and doubles back to Trevannys in time to save his wife. However, Trevanny sacrifices himself to save Ripley being shot by a wounded assassin. Genuinely puzzled by Trevannys selflessness, Ripley tries to give Sarah her husbands share of the blood money, but she only spits in his face in reply. That night, Ripley attends Luisas concert as if nothing has happened, but smiles briefly at the memory of Trevannys sacrifice.
Ripley's Game (film)
2002