Pete Morgan manages Jeftys Road House for his longtime friend, Jefferson "Jefty" Robbins, who inherited the place from his father. Jefty is attracted to Lily Stevens, his new singer from Chicago, but Pete thinks she is just another in a long string of girls he will eventually have to send on her way when Jefty tires of her. For his part, however, Jefty is convinced that Lily is "different", even though she is playing hard-to-get. Although Pete tries to pay Lily off and put her on a train, she is not about to leave and makes a successful debut at the club, accompanying herself on piano. Jefty asks Pete to teach Lily how to bowl in the roadhouses alley but she shows little interest in the sport and quite a bit more in Pete. Susie Smith, the clubs cashier who is fond of Pete, becomes jealous of Lily. Before Jefty leaves on a hunting trip, he tells Lily that she is not like any other girl he has ever met. Lily tries to join Pete for a boat ride on a lake, but he refuses as she is Jeftys girl. Lily contradicts that notion, so Pete arranges to pick her up later. Susie also goes along, although the womens friendship is decidedly frosty. Later, Pete comes to Lilys rescue when a drunk causes a scene at the club. Lily and Pete share a passionate kiss. Pete loves her, and it is obvious she feels the same way. Their idyll is interrupted when Jefty returns and shows Pete a marriage license he has obtained in his and Lilys names. Pete tells Jefty that he and Lily are planning to be married. Jefty throws him out. Lily and Pete decide to go off together; Pete leaves a note, stating in it that he has taken $600 owed to him. At the railroad station, two policemen detain Pete and Lily. Jefty claims that the entire weeks receipts have been taken from the roadhouses safe, but Pete insists he took only $600. After Susie states that the receipts totaled $2,600, Pete is held for trial and Lily accuses Jefty of framing him. Pete is tried and found guilty of grand larceny. Before sentencing, Jefty talks to the judge in private and persuades him to parole Pete into his custody. The judge announces that Pete will be on probation for two years, but will have his job back and will be obligated to repay Jefty from his paycheck. Pete and Lily realize that Jefty has them trapped. Jefty plans a trip to his hunting cabin. Pete wants to cross the Canada–US border, which is only fifteen miles from the road house but Lily refuses to go along, convincing Pete that Jefty wants the two of them to argue and for Pete to run away. At his cabin, Jefty taunts Pete and Lily while fooling around with a rifle. Lily accuses Jefty of taking the missing money, so Jefty hits her. Pete retaliates by knocking him out. Lily decides that she will go with Pete to Canada, which is now only about two miles through the woods and across a stream, and they set off on foot. Susie, meanwhile, discovers a deposit envelope for the receipts in Jeftys coat pocket, proof of Petes innocence and Jeftys false testimony. She follows and finds the couple. As she gives the envelope to Pete, Susie is shot in the arm by a pursuing Jefty. In the fog-enshrouded lakeside, Pete cranks up the motor on Jeftys boat and sends it off empty. After Jefty wastes bullets shooting at the boat, Pete tries to grab his gun. Lily gets possession of it and shoots Jefty when he threatens to hit her with a boulder. As Jefty dies, he reminds Pete that he once told him that Lily was "different". Dawn breaks as Pete, Lily and Susie (in Petes arms) head out of the woods and back to civilization, to a subdued arrangement of Lionel Newmans "Again".
Road House (1948 film)
1948