The film starts with con-artist Chuck Reardon (Bing Crosby) singing "You Lucky People, You" as a side-show caller at a circus advertising an act featuring his friend Hubert "Fearless" Frazier (Bob Hope). "Fearless" poses as a human cannonball, but he quickly substitutes a dummy at the last minute and hides in a secret compartment. The flaming dummy sets the big tent on fire and the two of them flee. Their subsequent acts show Fearless doing more dangerous acts, usually getting injured. When Chuck brings the next great idea, wrestling a live octopus, Fearless finally balks and wants to go back to the states. At a fancy restaurant, theyre sent champagne by a wealthy man, diamond baron Charles Kimble (Eric Blore). The festive mood turns sour when the police show up, but Kimble bails them out. They decide to go home to the United States, but when Chuck goes to get the tickets Kimble invites him onto his yacht for a drink. Fearless is busy packing and when Chuck comes back, he finds out Chuck has spent all their money, five thousand, on the deed for one of Kimbles diamond mines. It seems like a good deal, until they find out Kimble is an eccentric who would sign over anything and the deed is worthless. Furious at Chuck losing all their money, Fearless ends their partnership. Later that evening, Fearless comes back with a fistful of money, claiming to have sold the diamond mine to some guy at a bar for SEVEN thousand. They start to leave only to be confronted by the same man, Monsieur Le Bec (Lionel Royce). Fearless had inflated the story a little, so Le Bec and his huge bodyguard want Chuck and Fearless to accompany them to actually see the mine. Chuck and Fearless manage to escape and jump onto a boat bound for Africa. Stranded in Africa, they are propositioned by Julia Quimby (Una Merkel) to help rescue her friend, Donna LaTour (Dorothy Lamour), from being sold at a slave auction. They bid 150 in local coin on her to rescue her. Unbeknownst to both of them, Julia and Donna are also con-artists and take half of the payment to get food. Donna reveals to Julia about the seven thousand Chuck and Fearless have and how she has convinced them to take her and Julia on a safari across the country, not telling them its to see Donnas wealthy boyfriend. As their journey continues, with the help of an announcer and a montage, Chuck and Fearless both vie for Donnas attention. During a moonlit canoe ride, Chuck proclaims his feelings singing "Its Always You" and Donna realizes shes starting to fall for him too. Julia tells Donna it would be foolish to give up her wealthy boyfriend for a side show crooner. Donna finally confides to Fearless that despite her feelings for Chuck, her heart belongs to another. Thinking its him, Fearless agrees to tell Chuck. Chuck refuses to believe Fearless, who is practically skipping, but then Julia comes in and tell them both about the rich boyfriend. Chuck and Fearless finally learn theyve been duped from the beginning and everything had been a set-up. They angrily run into the jungle to confront her. While she is swimming in the nude, a pair of leopards appear and tear her clothes while she hides in the reeds. Upon seeing her torn clothes, Chuck and Fearless assume shes dead. They bury her clothes and have a funeral, all while Donna watches. During their attempt at a eulogy, they admit that despite the fact she lied to them, they both loved her. Chuck and Fearless start to sing "Its Always You" and burst into tears, until Donna sings to them and then they both turn on her. They storm off into the jungle and the safari leaves without them. While trying to find their way back, Chuck and Fearless stumble upon skeleton-laden caves. They jokingly bang on the drums only to summon a local tribe of natives. The natives, thinking they are gods, adorn them with jewels and give them food. Chuck and Fearless thinks it is great until the natives decide to test them by throwing Fearless in a cage with a giant gorilla. After a comical wrestling match, in which Fearless loses, the natives prepare to cook them both, until they use their infamous patty cake routine to escape. They return to civilization, haggard, dirty and penniless until they hock the jewels they had received from the natives. Fearless reluctantly lets Chuck go to get the tickets. When he comes back empty handed, Fearless is crushed, until Chuck presents Donna and Julia. Donna gave up the rich boyfriend because shes in love with Chuck. When Fearless asks what they are going to do for money, Chuck springs another great idea and the film ends with the four of them again doing a carnival act, this time sawing a woman (Julia) in half.
Road to Zanzibar
1941