Commander Christopher "Kit" Draper, USN (Paul Mantee) and Colonel Dan McReady, USAF (Adam West) reach the Red Planet in their spaceship, Mars Gravity Probe 1. They are forced to use up their remaining fuel in order to avoid an imminent collision with a large orbiting meteoroid; they descend in their one-man lifeboat pods, becoming the first humans on Mars. Draper eventually finds a rock face cave for shelter. He figures out how to obtain the rest of what he needs to survive: he burns some coal-like rocks for warmth and discovers that heating them also releases oxygen. This allows him to refill his air tanks with a hand pump and to move around in the thin Martian atmosphere. On one of his excursions, he finds McReadys crashed pod and dead body. He also finds their monkey Mona alive. Later, he notices that Mona keeps disappearing and is uninterested in their dwindling supply of food and water. He gives her a salty cracker, but no water. When Mona gets thirsty, he lets her out and follows her to a cave where he finds a pool of water in which edible plant "sausages" grow. As the days grow into months, Draper slowly begins to crack from the prolonged isolation, at one point imagining an alive, but unspeaking, McReady appearing in his cave. He also watches helplessly as his mothership, an inaccessible "supermarket", periodically orbits overhead; without fuel, the spaceship cannot respond to his radioed order to land. While walking about, Draper comes upon a dark rock slab standing almost upright. Curious, he digs in the ground around it, exposing a skeletal hand and arm wearing a black bracelet. He uncovers the rest of the humanoid skeleton and determines that the alien was murdered; the front of the skull shows heavy charring. To hide his presence on Mars, Draper signals his low-orbiting mothership to self-destruct on its next overhead pass. Not long after, Draper sees a spaceship descend and land just over the horizon. Believing it might be a rescue ship from Earth, he heads towards the landing site the following morning, only to see alien spacecraft darting about in the sky. He approaches cautiously and sees human-looking slaves being used for mining by equally human-shaped captors wearing spacesuits, helmets, and bearing weapons. One of the slaves (Victor Lundin) escapes, running into Draper; an alien spaceship blasts their area as the two escape. Draper notices the stranger is wearing black bracelets just like the one he found in the grave. The aliens bombard the mine area that night and then depart. Later, when he and the stranger investigate, they find the dead bodies of the other slaves. Draper names his new acquaintance "Friday," after the character in Robinson Crusoe, and begins teaching him English. In return, Friday shares his "air pills", which provide oxygen; they gradually grow to trust and then like each other. After a while, the alien spacecraft return, tracking Friday by his bracelets. Draper begins sawing away at the tough material with a wire hacksaw. When the aliens blast the castaways hiding place, Draper, Friday, and Mona flee north through the underground Martian canals. They eventually surface near the polar icecap. Exhausted, freezing, and nearly out of the air pills, they build a snow shelter. Draper finally succeeds in cutting off Fridays bracelets shortly before the low-orbiting meteoroid crashes into the ice cap; the resulting explosion and firestorm melts the ice and snow, saving them from freezing to death. Later, Draper detects an approaching spaceship. He fears it is the aliens, but is relieved when his portable radio picks up an English-speaking voice. A rescue capsule descends. Later, Mars recedes in the distance as the film credits scroll.
Robinson Crusoe on Mars
1964