In Rivet Town, Rodney Copperbottom is a young inventor who dreams of making the world a better place, like his idol, Bigweld. During Rodneys adolescence, he invents the Wonderbot to help his father, Herb, clean dishes at a restaurant. When Herbs supervisor confronts them, Wonderbot breaks the dishes, causing Herb to be put in debt and Rodney to be dismissed. Rodney takes his invention to Robot City to work as an inventor at Bigweld Industries and help pay his father’s debt. After a spectacular but harrowing ride on the Crosstown Express, Rodney arrives at the gate of Bigweld Industries. He learns that Phineas T. Ratchet has taken over Bigweld Industries and has put an end to manufacturing spare parts. Ratchet believes the company can improve if it focuses on selling upgrades; if the robots refuse, they are sent to the Chop Shop, where they are melted down by the owner of the Chop Shop, Madame Gasket, Ratchets mother. Rodney is forced out and meets Fender Pinwheeler, and a group of other robots called "The Rusties" with whom Rodney stays at a low-rent boarding house owned by Aunt Fanny. Eventually, Rodney begins fixing old robots in the neighborhood. Upon discovering this, Gasket orders Ratchet to stop Rodney and destroy Bigweld. Rodney later receives news that Herb needs replacement parts. Rodney decides to contact Bigweld directly to beg him to restart the manufacture of spare parts. Wonderbot reminds him that Bigweld will show up at the Bigweld Ball, which takes place that night. Rodney and Fender go to the ball in disguise only to hear Ratchet announce that Bigweld is unable to attend. Rodney confronts Ratchet, but security stops him. Cappy, a robot-executive of the company who dislikes Ratchets plan, saves him, and together with Fender, they escape from the ball. Afterwards, Fender is captured by a sweeper and taken to the Chop Shop, but manages to escape, losing his legs in the process and finding a replacement pair with a built-in skirt. Meanwhile, Rodney and Cappy fly to Bigwelds home and meet him. Rodney asks Bigweld to return to his company and make spare parts available again, but Bigweld refuses, explaining that Ratchet forced him out of the company. Rodney calls his parents, intending to give up his dream and return to Rivet Town, but Herb encourages Rodney to continue pursuing it. Rodney rallies the Rusties into fighting back against Ratchet and Gasket. Fender reveals that Ratchet has built a fleet of super-sweepers with the intention of rounding up and destroying all of the older robots. Bigweld eventually comes with the group, having realized what Rodney meant to him. The group then heads back to Bigweld Industries where Bigweld attempts to fire Ratchet, but after a huge chase involving Ratchet chasing after Rodney, Bigweld, Cappy and the Rusties around the city, Bigweld ends up getting captured and sent to the Chop Shop. A battle ensues between the Rusties, Ratchet, and Gaskets henchmen. During the chaos, Rodney rescues Bigweld, the choppers and sweepers are destroyed, Wonderbot engages Gasket in combat, where she is destroyed when she gets tossed into a furnace, while Ratchet loses his upgrades. Retaking control of Bigweld Industries, Bigweld goes to Rivet Town to tell Rodneys parents that their son is now his right-hand inventor and eventual successor.
Robots (2005 film)
2005