Rocky Balboa, now in his late fifties and retired from boxing, lives a quiet life as a widower, Adrian having died from cancer four years prior. He now runs a small but successful Italian restaurant named after her, where he regales his patrons with stories of his past. He also battles personal demons, involving his grief over Adrians death, the changing times, and his eroding relationship with his son Robert, who has moved out to become a struggling corporate employee. Paulie, Rockys brother-in-law, continues to support him whenever he can, but is constantly riddled with guilt over his poor treatment toward his late sister. Late one night, Rocky reunites with a woman named Marie, who was once a mischievous neighborhood girl long ago. Marie now works as a bartender at the Lucky Seven Tavern, and is a single parent of a teenage son born out of wedlock named Stephenson, nicknamed "Steps". Rockys friendship with Marie (where Steps takes to Rocky as his father figure) quickly blossoms over the following weeks, providing him a much-needed buffer for his anguish. Meanwhile, on the professional boxing circuit, Mason "The Line" Dixon, reigns as the undefeated, yet unpopular heavyweight world champion, often ridiculed for defeating only "bum" competitors, having never gone up against a true contender. This leads to tension with the public and his promoters, and encourages him to return to his roots, the small gym he first trained in, as well as his old trainer who sagely tells him that, inevitably, he will earn back his respect through a true opponent. Their relationship mirrors Rocky and Mickey. ESPN later broadcasts a computer simulation of a fight between Rocky (in his prime) and Mason, likened to a modern-day version of The Super Fight that ends in a disputed KO victory for Balboa, further riling the champ. In contrast, the simulation inspires Rocky to take up boxing again—an intention that goes public when he successfully renews his boxing license. Dixons promoters thus pitch the idea of holding a charity exhibition bout at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino in Las Vegas to bolster Dixons floundering popularity. With some hesitation, both men agree to the match, creating a media buzz that stabs at Rockys has-been status and Dixons credibility. Robert later makes an effort to discourage Rocky from fighting, blaming his own personal failings on his fathers celebrity shadow, but Rocky rebukes him with some profound advice; that to succeed in life, "it aint about how hard you hit; its about how hard you can get hit, and keep moving forward", and that blaming others wont help him. The next day, father and son meet over Adrians grave and reconcile; Robert has quit his job to be at Rockys side. Rocky sets straight to training with Apollo Creeds old trainer, Duke, who quickly surmises that the slow and arthritic Rocky can only compete by building his strength and punching power as much as possible. The bout itself is a back and forth affair, with Dixon easily dominating the first round, only to injure his left hand in the second one on Rockys hip. Rocky then makes a dramatic comeback, knocking Mason down, and surprising the audience with his prowess and chin, despite his age. The two combatants beat each other severely throughout the full ten rounds, ending with both men still standing, although Rocky gets the last punch. Rocky thanks an appreciative Dixon for the match and tells him that he is a great champion while the audience applauds the two fighters. The result is announced as Rocky exits the ring to the adulation of the crowd: it is a win for Dixon by a close split decision, but Rocky clearly doesnt mind the outcome. In the closing shot, Rocky returns home and visits Adrians grave again, thanking her for helping him; "Yo Adrian, we did it. We did it."
Rocky Balboa (film)
2006