Mining engineer Larry Sutton (Randolph Scott) arrives at the Ballard radium mine to take over as chief engineer from his missing brother-in-law Jack Parson, who is a suspect in the murder of ranch caretaker Adolph Borg. Sutton teams up with deputy sheriff Tex Murdock (Chic Sale) who is investigating the murder. Staying at the ranch with the ailing owner, Jim Ballard (George F. Marion), are his niece Flora (Kathleen Burke) and nephew Fritz (Howard Wilson) whove been notified of their uncles failing health now wait to inherit his legacy. Also staying at the ranch is a mysterious Chinaman Ling Yat (Willie Fung), the housekeeper Mrs. Borg (Leslie Carter), her son John (James Eagles), and the beautiful and spirited Rita Ballard (Ann Sheridan), another niece, who quickly earns Suttons trust and romantic interest. Shortly after Sutton arrives, Ballards nephew Fritz is murdered by a mysterious cloaked figure in the same manner that Adolph was killed—crushed beneath the massive weight of a stamp mill, a huge apparatus used to pulverize rock to unearth valuable ore. Sutton and Tex find that the ranch guests all have alibis. Soon the mysterious cloaked figure strikes again, shooting young John, attacking Sutton, and slashing Floras throat. While the investigation continues, Jim, who is apparently an invalid, takes a turn for the worse, prompting Sutton to contact his ex-wife who hasnt been to the ranch in thirty years. Mrs. Ballard arrives at the ranch, Mrs. Borg tries to prevent her from seeing her ailing ex-husband. Sutton arrives and helps her upstairs where she discover that "Jim" is actually Adolph Borg, and that he and his wife had killed the real Jim Ballard sometime earlier during a takeover attempt by the Borg family. Adolph then tricks Sutton and escapes, taking Rita as a hostage. Sutton follows them to the mine where he fights with Adolph and John, nearly being crushed by the stamp mill. After Adolph falls to his death, Sutton rescues Rita. Afterwards, Mrs. Borg, her son John, and their Chinese servant Ling Yat are sentenced to twenty years in prison, and Tex is made sheriff. Larry and Rita get married and buy a ranch in Hawaii.
Rocky Mountain Mystery
1935