Shortly after Rocky Balboas victory over Ivan Drago in Moscow, he, his wife Adrian, his brother-in-law Paulie, and his trainer Tony "Duke" Evers, return to the United States, where they are greeted by Rockys son, Robert. At a press conference, boxing promoter George Washington Duke attempts to goad Rocky into fighting his boxer, Union Cane, who is now the top-rated challenger, but Rocky declines the offer. Duke refuses to give up on the huge payday fight with Balboa and surmises he needs to come up with an angle to convince him to fight. After returning home, it is discovered that Paulie unknowingly had Rocky sign a "power of attorney" over to Rockys accountant, who had squandered all of his money on real estate deals gone sour; in addition, the accountant had failed to pay Rockys taxes over the previous six years, and his mansion had been mortgaged by $400,000. His lawyer confirms this, but tells Rocky that it is fixable with a few more fights. Unwilling to go bankrupt, Rocky decides to accept the mega fight with Cane. After seeing a doctor, however, he is diagnosed with permanent brain damage. Adrian convinces him to retire, which he reluctantly accepts. Adrian returns to working part-time at the J&M Tropical Fish pet store. Rocky plans to reopen Mighty Micks Boxing Gym, willed to his son Robert by his late trainer Mickey Goldmill. He walks through the vacant gym and reminisces about a training session between the two just before Rocky fought the rematch against Apollo Creed years before. One day, Rocky and Paulie meet a young fighter from Oklahoma named Tommy Gunn, and Rocky takes him under his wing. Training the young fighter gives Rocky a sense of purpose, and Gunn rises to become a top contender. Rocky becomes so distracted with Gunns training that he ends up neglecting Robert, who is being bullied at school. After learning to defend himself, he falls in with the wrong crowd and becomes withdrawn and angry toward his family. Union Cane wins the vacant world heavyweight title, while Gunn continues rising through the ranks. Still wanting to do business with Rocky, Duke sees Gunns knockout streak and relationship with Rocky as a way of gaining control of him. Duke showers Gunn with luxuries and promises him that he is the only path to a shot against Union Cane for the title. Duke hopes to take control of Gunn as his manager and keep Rocky on as head trainer. On Christmas Eve, Duke visits the Balboa house with Gunn to explain the new scenario, which would financially benefit all of them. However, Rocky insists dealing with Duke will end badly and is dirty business. Gunn drives off in a huff, leaving Rocky for good. Adrian attempts to comfort Rocky, but his frustration boils over. He confesses his life had meaning again when he was able to live vicariously through Gunns success. She reasons with him, telling him Tommy never had his heart and spirit—something he could never learn. When this realization hits him, Rocky embraces his wife and they begin to pick up the pieces. After finding Robert hanging out on a street corner, Rocky apologizes to his son and they mend their broken relationship. Gunn fights Cane for the heavyweight title as Rocky watches on television, still rooting for his protégé. Gunn wins the fight with a first round knockout but is jeered by spectators for leaving Rocky and hounded by reporters after the fight. They insist that Cane was nothing but a "paper champion", because Cane did not win the title from Balboa. They claim he will never be the real champion unless he fights a worthy opponent, like Rocky; they drive the point home when one reporter announces, "...hes no Rocky Balboa!" With Gunn incensed by the presss reaction, Duke convinces him that he needs to secure a title fight with Rocky to refute the notion that he is not the real champion. Duke and Gunn show up at the local bar with a live television crew to goad Rocky into accepting a title fight. Rocky declines and tries to reason with him, but Gunn rebukes it and calls him weak, prompting Paulie to stand up for Rocky. When Gunn attacks Paulie, Rocky accepts the challenge, but tells him "my ring is outside." Despite Dukes warnings to keep the fight in the ring, Gunn accepts. During the fight, Rocky is seemingly beaten down before he hears the voice of Mickey urging him to get up and continue the fight, to go just "one more round." Rocky gets up and, with Robert, Paulie, and the entire neighborhood cheering him on, utilizes his vast street fighting knowledge to defeat his former protégé. While Gunn is escorted away by the police, Duke threatens to sue Rocky if he touches him. After a brief hesitation, Rocky knocks him onto the hood of a car and quips, "Sue me for what?" The next morning, Rocky and Robert explore the Philadelphia Museum of Art, and Rocky gives his son Rocky Marcianos cufflink, given to him years ago as a gift from Mickey. The film ends with a shot of Rockys statue looking out over the Philadelphia skyline.
Rocky V
2006