Ivan Drago, a Soviet Russian boxer, arrives in the United States with his wife, Ludmilla, a Soviet Russian swimmer and a team of trainers from the USSR and Cuba. His manager, Nicolai Koloff, takes every opportunity to promote Dragos athleticism as a hallmark of Soviet superiority. Motivated by patriotism and an innate desire to prove himself, Apollo Creed challenges Drago to an exhibition bout. Rocky has reservations, but agrees to train Apollo despite his misgivings about the match. He asks Apollo whether the fight is against the Soviet, or "you against you?" During a press conference regarding the match, hostility sparks between Apollo and Dragos respective camps. The boxing exhibition takes place at the MGM Grand Hotel in Las Vegas. Apollo enters the ring in an over-the-top patriotic entrance with James Brown performing "Living in America" complete with showgirls. The bout starts tamely with Apollo landing several punches that are ineffective against Drago, and Drago retaliates with devastating effect. By the end of the first round, Rocky and Apollos trainer, Duke, plead with him to give up, but Apollo refuses to do so, and tells Rocky not to stop the match "no matter what." Drago continues to pummel him in the second round, Duke begs Rocky to throw in the towel. Eventually, Drago lands one final punch on Apollo, killing him. In the aftermath, Drago displays no sense of remorse commenting to the assembled media: "If he dies, he dies." Enraged by guilt and the Russians cold indifference, Rocky decides to challenge Drago himself. Dragos camp agrees to an unsanctioned 15-round fight in the Soviet Union on Christmas Day, an arrangement meant to protect Drago from the threats of violence he has been receiving in America. Rocky travels to the USSR without Adrian, setting up his training base in Krasnogourbinsk with only Duke and brother-in-law Paulie to accompany him. Duke opens up to Rocky, stating that he actually raised Apollo, and that his death felt like a father losing his son. He expresses his faith in Rocky to prevail. To prepare for the match, Drago uses high-tech equipment, steroid enhancement, and a team of trainers and doctors monitoring his every movement. Rocky, on the other hand, lifts and throws heavy logs, chops down trees, pulls an overloaded snow sleigh with Paulie atop, jogs through heavy snow under treacherous icy conditions, and climbs the largest icy mountain. Adrian arrives unexpectedly to give Rocky her support after initially refusing to travel to the Soviet Union, because of her worry that Rocky would be killed like Apollo. Before the match, Drago is introduced with an elaborate patriotic ceremony, inspired by Apollo Creeds intro. The home crowd is squarely on Dragos side and hostile to Rocky. In stark contrast to his match with Apollo, Drago immediately goes on the offensive. Rocky takes a fierce pounding, and is thrown and shoved across the ring in the first round, but comes back toward the end of the second round, and cuts Dragos left eye, stunning both the Russian and the crowd. This prompts Rocky to continue punching even after the bell rings. While Duke and Paulie encourage Rocky, they remind him that Drago is not a machine, but rather still human. Drago ironically comments to his trainers that Rocky "is not human, he is like a piece of iron," after his trainers reprimand him for his performance against the "weak" American. The two boxers continue their battle over the next dozen rounds, with Rocky managing to continually hold his ground, despite Dragos valiant efforts. His resilience and persistence rallies the previously hostile Soviet crowd to his side, which unsettles Drago to the point that he picks Koloff up by the throat and throws him off the ring for berating his performance. In the final round, Rocky overcomes Drago with a knockout, to the shock of the Soviet politburo members watching the match. Rocky gives a victory speech, acknowledging that the local crowds disdain of him had turned to respect during the fight. He compares it to the animosity between the Soviets and America, and says that seeing him and Drago fight was "better than 20 million", alluding to a possible war between the USA and the USSR. Rocky finally declares, "If I can change, and you can change, then everybody can change!" The Soviet General Secretary stands up and reluctantly applauds Rocky, and his aides follow suit. Rocky ends his speech by wishing his son watching the match on TV a Merry Christmas, and raises his arms into the air in victory as the crowd applauds.
Rocky IV
1985