Bodi (Luke Wilson) is a young Tibetan Mastiff who is expected to be the next guard of the village of Snow Mountain, succeeding his father Khampa (J. K. Simmons) after the latter has driven out a pack of gangster grey wolves led by the villainous Linnux (Lewis Black) years ago, but is sure they will return. Khampa has some of the local sheep dressed up as Mastiffs to give the illusion the village is being guarded by multiple Mastiffs to keep the wolves at bay, but Bodi has trouble perfecting his fathers signature move the Iron Paw which projects a powerful blast that as Khampa states can only happen if Bodi "finds the fire." Khampa has also forbidden music in the village since Bodi got distracted from his duties when he was younger. After a disastrous training session, Bodi accidentally and indirectly causes a nearby flying plane to drop a package. Among the items that fell out, Bodi becomes interested in a red radio and listens to some of the music on the stations before becoming entranced on rock music and idolizes British rock legend Angus Scattergood (Eddie Izzard). Bodi steals a traditional dramyin from a den of locked up instruments, adds additional strings to make it a conventional Western guitar, and begins neglecting his guard duties in favor of playing music, which puts him at odds with his father, especially since Bodi told him that he has decided to be a musician. After Khampa and some of the guard sheep accidentally cause Bodi to unleash a false alarm on the village while dressed as wolves (in an attempt to scare him straight) escalating into some fireworks being set off, the village elder Fleetwood Yak (Sam Elliott) convinces Khampa to let Bodi follow his dream and gives him a bus ticket to give to Bodi that will take him to a nearby city. Khampa gives Bodi the ticket, but makes him promise to give up music if his trip doesnt work out; the villagers and Fleetwood say goodbye to him after he leaves with his guitar. At the bus station, Bodi is discovered by two of Linnuxs henchman, the short and comical Riff (Kenan Thompson) and the tall and silent Skozz. Riff informs Linnux of Bodis departure and Linnux orders them to kidnap Bodi, reasoning that Bodi is his chance to take over Snow Mountain. When Bodi makes to the city, he heads to Rock and Roll Park since its where Scattergood began his career. He attempts to join a band consisting of the down-to-earth fox Darma (Mae Whitman) and an absent-minded goat drummer named Germur (Jorge Garcia), who are the only members and therefore dont have an audience. However, Bodi is humiliated after losing a guitar contest to an arrogant snow leopard guitarist named Trey (Matt Dillon), who is amused with Bodis naivety. Trey, discovering his idolization for Scattergood, manipulates Bodi into convincing Scattergood to give him some guitar lessons at his mansion, though he knows a little secret about Angus security set-up. At Scattergoods mansion, he is revealed to be a white Persian cat who wears black sunglasses all the time and has a serious case of songwriters block as his manager, Ian, has given him three days to unleash a new song or his career will go down. His only companion is his robot butler Ozzie. When Bodi tries to meet Scattergood, the latter is put off by Bodis fanboy attitude and tries to evade him. Eventually, Bodi and Scattergood get lost in a back alley and Bodi decides to play music at Rock and Roll Park to get money for Scattergood to get back to his mansion. However, Riff and Skozz mistakenly kidnap Scattergood after they see Bodi at the park just when Bodi tries to convince a disbelieving Darma and Germur that he is with Scattergood. After Riff and Skozz realize their mistake, Linnux angrily sends them off to find Bodi again and they drop Scattergood off at his home. After Scattergood thinks that his career is over since he has less than a day to write a new song, he hears Bodi playing on his guitar and decides to use Bodi to create a new song. He invites Bodi into his home with the facade of a "guitar lesson" and together they create a new song called "Glorious". Bodi later realizes that he was used after hearing Scattergood take full credit for the song on a radio, which saddens him. Trey mocks Bodi and everyone in the park leaves, although Darma and Germur feel sorry for Bodi. Soon afterward, Bodi finally gets captured by Linnuxs henchmen via tranquilizer darts and he accidentally - while slightly under the tranquilizers effects - reveals the fake Mastiff guards when Linnux interrogates him for information. Linnux and his gang head off to Snow Mountain while Bodi is put into a boxing match at Linnuxs Fight Club, but Bodi cleverly has his opponent break the cage surrounding them so he can escape. Meanwhile, Scattergood, after being guilt-tripped by Ozzie for exploiting Bodi for his own self-serving goals (Ozzie only needed to be recharged), uses his old tour bus to find Bodi. At Rock and Roll Park, Scattergood meets up with Darma and Germur and they discover that Bodi has been captured when they see his guitar covered in tranquilizer darts. Scattergood, with a change of heart, forgoes sending in his new song to rescue Bodi. After meeting with Bodi outside of Linnuxs hideout, Scattergood makes amends with him by giving his old acoustic guitar with his autograph as a sign of gratitude and then takes him to Snow Mountain to stop Linnux and his henchmen. Linnux and his gang overpower Khampa and the whole village and attempt to devour the villagers, but Bodi appears. After a climatic chase, Bodi subdues the wolves by "finding the fire" by playing Scattergoods guitar and making the wolves, the villagers, and his friends levitate. Khampa banishes Linnux with his Iron Paw and accepts Bodis ambition to play rock music. At the city, Scattergood gives full credit of the song "Glorious" to Bodi. Bodi forms a band with Darma and Germur as they (including Scattergood, Fleetwood, and the sheeps) sing and play "Glorious" to the city, the Snow Mountain villagers, Khampa, and most of the redeemed wolves (including Riff and Skozz) at Linnuxs old Fight Palace. Outside, Trey tries to convince a bear bouncer that hes a part of the band, but is rejected. Scattergood recommends Bodis band to Ian as Bodi shows the audience his blue energy wave.
Rock Dog
2017