Three years after winning the heavyweight championship against Apollo Creed, Rocky Balboa has had a string of ten successful title defenses. His fame, wealth, endorsements, and celebrity profile have increased. He decides to participate in an exhibition charity event against the world wrestling champion, Thunderlips. Rockys manager, Mickey, worriedly eyes a young and powerful contender rapidly rising through the ranks named James "Clubber" Lang. While unveiling a statue of himself at the stairway by the Philadelphia Museum of Art, just prior to announcing his retirement, Rocky is publicly challenged by Lang, now the number-one contender. Lang accuses Rocky of intentionally accepting challenges from lesser opponents, and after he makes a remark toward Rockys wife, Adrian, Rocky decides to accept the challenge. Mickey initially wants no part of it. Pressed by Rocky, Mickey confesses that he handpicked the opponents for Rockys title defenses in order to spare him from the beating Creed gave him in their rematch. He explains that Lang is young and powerful, and most of all hes "hungry", and that Rocky wont last three rounds, because he has lost his edge and become "civilized". Rocky, not wanting to retire and knowing that he never really defended his title against the best opponents, convinces Mickey to work with him a little while longer, pledges to "live in the gym", and be more focused than ever. Despite his promise to Mickey, Rocky trains in a Las Vegas style training camp that is filled with distractions, and is clearly not taking his training seriously. In contrast, Lang trains with ruthless determination and vigor. Lang and Rocky meet at Philadelphias Spectrum. In a brawl backstage, Mickey is violently shoved out of the way by Lang, causing Mickey to suffer a heart attack. Distraught, Rocky requests to call the match off, but Mickey urges him on while he stays in the dressing room. By the time of the match, Rocky is both enraged and severely distracted by his mentors condition. The match begins with Rocky pounding Lang with several huge blows, going for an early knockout, but Lang is soon unfazed, and quickly takes charge, dominating Rocky, and knocking him out with a haymaker left hook in the second round, winning the heavyweight championship title. After the match, Rocky returns to Mickey in the dressing room. Kneeling at his side, Rocky tells him about the match, revealing it ended in a second round knockout without saying who the victor was. An exhausted Mickey falsely believes Rocky won and then peacefully succumbs to his heart attack and dies. Rocky, lapsing into severe depression, mourns over Mickeys death afterwards. Stopping by Mickeys closed gym, the forlorn Rocky encounters his former nemesis, Apollo Creed, who witnessed the match as a guest analyst. Creed offers to help train Rocky for a rematch against Lang for a favor later. At first, Rocky is too demoralized to put forth his best efforts, which leaves Apollo concerned; but he regains his momentum after Adrian helps him come to terms with Mickeys death. Apollo then trains Rocky at the gym where he once trained, Tough Gym in Los Angeles. Creed infuses Rockys brawling style with more of the footwork, skill, and speed that is Apollos trademark. The rematch takes place at Madison Square Garden. Apollo lends Rocky the American flag trunks that he once wore during their first match. As the match is under way, Rocky sprints from his corner, fighting with a level of skill and spirit that no one ever expected. As a result, Rocky completely dominates the first round. After the bell, an enraged Lang has to be restrained by his trainers. In the second round, Lang gains the upper hand, and Rocky adopts an entirely different strategy that bewilders Apollo by intentionally taking a beating from Lang, even getting knocked down twice, all the while taunting Lang that he cannot knock him out. By the third round, Lang, who is used to winning matches swiftly with knockouts in the early rounds, becomes increasingly furious over Rockys taunts. He quickly exhausts his energy trying to finish Rocky off with repeated knockout blows, which Rocky blocks or dodges. With Lang rattled and vulnerable, Rocky seizes the opportunity to finish off Lang in a knockout to reclaim the heavyweight championship. Afterwards, Rocky fulfills Apollos favor: a private rematch with him at Mickeys gym. However, this time, they are fighting in the spirit of friendly competition rather than as fierce rivals. The film concludes with both fighters throwing their first punch simultaneously as the final frame freezes and morphs into a Leroy Nieman painting of the moment.
Rocky III
1982