In the film the world of 2018 (referred to in the tagline as "the not too distant future") is a global corporate state, containing entities such as the Energy Corporation, a global energy monopoly based in Houston, which deals with nominally peer corporations controlling access to all transport, luxury, housing, communication, and food on a global basis. Society is now free of war, famine, and disease. In exchange for their obedience to the corporations, they have abandoned much of their freedom. The elite of society are issued privilege cards and waste their time in shallow, meaningless pursuits, bolstered by pills that provide a sense of well-being, and the privileged are also assigned companions. The chief entertainment is that of the professional sport of Rollerball. Rollerball is a violent, globally popular sport around which the events of the film take place. It is similar to Roller Derby in that two teams clad in body armor skate on roller skates (some instead ride on motorcycles) around a banked, circular track. There, however, the similarity ends. The object of the game is to score points by throwing a softball-sized steel ball into a goal, which is a magnetic, cone-shaped area inset into the wall of the arena. The ball is put into play by being launched from a cannon at the top of the track. Rollerball is a full-contact sport in which players have considerable leeway to attack opposing players in order to take or maintain possession of the ball. The player in possession must hold the ball in plain view at all times; the opposing team plays defense and acts to prevent scoring. Each team has 10 players on the track, seven skaters and three riding motorcycles to which teammates can latch on and be towed. Rollerball teams, named after the cities in which they are based, are owned by the various global corporations. Energy Corporation sponsors the Houston team. There appear to be various divisions or classes of teams, as with soccer and baseball, as Jonathan refers to a new player on the Houston team as having been called up from the Manila team, but this is never explicitly stated. The game is a substitute for all current team sports and for warfare. While its ostensible purpose is entertainment, Mr. Bartholomew, a high-level executive of the Energy Corporation, describes it as having a "distinct social purpose": to show the futility of individual effort.
Rollerball (1975 film)
1975