At a bistro in Montmartre, Irish operative Deirdre meets with former special operatives-turned-mercenaries Sam and Larry (Americans) and Vincent (a Frenchman). She takes them to a warehouse where fellow mercenaries (the Englishman Spence and the German Gregor) are waiting, and briefs them on their mission: to attack a heavily armed convoy and steal a large metallic briefcase, the contents of which are never revealed. As the team prepares, Deirdre meets with handler Seamus ORourke, who says that the Russian mafia is bidding for the case and the team must intervene. After Spence is exposed as a fraud by Sam and dismissed, the others leave for Nice. Sam and Deirdre are attracted to each other during a stakeout. On the day of the sale, Deirdres team ambushes the convoy at La Turbie and pursue the survivors to Nice. After a gunfight at the port, Gregor steals the case and disappears. He sells the case to the Russians, but is forced to kill his contact when he betrays him. Gregor contacts Mikhi (the Russian mobster in charge of the deal), and makes him agree to another meeting. The team tracks Gregor through one of Sams CIA contacts and corners him in the Arles Amphitheatre, where he is meeting two of Mikhis men. Gregor flees and is captured by Seamus, who kills Larry and escapes with Deirdre. Sam is shot while saving Vincents life and is brought to a villa in Les Baux-de-Provence owned by Vincents friend, Jean-Pierre. After removing the bullet and letting Sam recuperate, Vincent asks Jean-Pierre to help them find Gregor and the Irishmen. In Paris, Gregor is brutally interrogated into leading Seamus and Deirdre to a post office where they retrieve the case. Sam and Vincent pursue them in a high-speed chase, which ends when Vincent shoots Deirdres tire and sends her car over an overpass under construction. When Sam and Vincent fire at him, Gregor takes cover behind the flipped car (which is set ablaze by the gunfire). Gregor flees with the case, while road workers rescue Deirdre and Seamus from the burning vehicle. Sam and Vincent decide to track down the Russians and learn from one of Jean-Pierres contacts that they are involved with figure-skater Natacha Kirilova (Mikhis girlfriend), who is appearing at Le Zénith. During his girlfriends performance that night Mikhi meets with Gregor, who says that a sniper in the arena will shoot Natacha if Mikhi betrays him. Mikhi kills Gregor and leaves with the case, letting the sniper kill Natacha. Sam and Vincent follow the panicked crowd out of the arena in time to see Seamus shoot Mikhi and steal the case. Sam runs ahead and finds Deirdre waiting in the getaway car; he tells her to leave, revealing himself as a CIA agent pursuing Seamus and not the case. Deirdre drives away, forcing Seamus to run back to the arena with Sam in pursuit. Seamus ambushes Sam, and is fatally shot by Vincent. Sam and Vincent later talk in the bistro where they first met, while a radio broadcast announces that a peace agreement was reached between Sinn Féin and the British government (partially as a result of Seamus death). Sam looks toward the door expectantly, but Vincent tells him that Deirdre will not be coming back. Sam drives off with his CIA contact, and Vincent pays the bill and leaves.
Ronin (film)
1998