Because of his drunkenness and questionable use of firearms, aging one-eyed (wearing a distinctive black eye patch) U.S. Marshal Rooster Cogburn (John Wayne) in the Indian Territory (future Oklahoma) has been stripped of his badge by Judge Parker (John McIntire) at the territorial capital of Fort Smith, Arkansas for excessive violence fatness and drunkenness, complaining he had "gone to seed"!. But hes given a chance to redeem himself after a shipment of highly explosive nitroglycerine is stolen from a transporting troop of United States Army cavalry. Rooster agrees and eventually tracks the outlaws, led by Hawk (Richard Jordan) and his gang, along with Roosters former scout Breed (Anthony Zerbe - who had earlier betrayed the Cavalry troop escort to be ambushed at a creek crossing by Hawks cutthroats), to a church mission at the remote settlement of Fort Ruby in the Indian Territory. The village had been overrun earlier by the gang who camped overnight plying the Indians with liquor and gambling, who then killed an elderly missionary preacher who protested, Rev. George Goodnight (Jon Lormer) and a number of the local Indians. The Reverends spinster daughter, Miss Eula Goodnight (Katharine Hepburn), wants to join Marshal Cogburn to track the criminals down, becoming his unwilling partner along with her student Wolf, the son of one of the deceased Indians, who aspires to be one of the first Indian lawmen and United States Marshal. Meanwhile, in a scuffle between two bandit men, one of them is wounded by a stab wound. The heavily loaded wagons wheels also hit a rock, but the men manage to fix it, while gang leader Hawk goes ahead to scout out their next crime target. Getting ahead of Hawks gang, Rooster, Wolf, and Eula stake out a crossing across a gully in the woods, barricading the path with logs. The bandits are stopped and Rooster threatens to blow up the wagon and its high explosive contents unless the men dismount, which they do. A man attempts to shoot Rooster in the back, but Miss Eula makes the perfect shot from across the ravine and kills him, revealing herself to be an excellent sharpshooter. Another man tries the same, but is killed instantly by a bullet to the chest. Rooster cries out "Posse!" and his two partners fire into the air, causing the men to actually think he has overwhelming superior numbers in his posse, which they flee. Rooster captures the wagon, the wood boxes of the unstable volatile "nitro" and the new revolutionary repeater Gatling gun, an early machine gun on board. The men carry on back to their leader, Hawk. He orders Breed to investigate the tracks back at the ravine which he finds out there was not much of a posse, much to Hawks disdain. Hawk, Breed and the bandit which got stabbed, ride on to town where they had planned using the nitro to rob a bank of its gold shipment, while the other men attempt to fix the axle, which they eventually do. The stabbed man cannot make it, causing Hawk to shoot him, saying "Let the buzzards have him" to Breed. That night the outlaw men kidnap Wolf, saying they will let him go if Cogburn gives back the wagon, the boxes of explosives and the Gatling gun, but are actually planning to get the wagon back, and to kill the three heroes anyway. Wolf shoots the man who is holding him with a small 5-shot Pepperbox handgun/derringer, that Rooster previously gave to him to protect himself and Miss Eula if need be. He escapes and scampers back to Cogburns camp safely. Rooster has Eula hitch up the wagon horses, while Wolf scatters the outlaws horses. The bandits retreat from the torrent of Gatling gun fire, allowing the heroes to escape safely. The next day, Rooster "borrows" a raft from an old ferryboat man (Strother Martin) by wagging his pistol in the complaining old-timers face, stashing as many boxes of bottles with nitroglycerine as possible on board and head down the mountainous river facing narrow rocky rapids and waterfalls. The "bad men" attempt to ambush the three, but they fire the rapid-fire Gatling gun up at them on the rocky cliffs and they manage to escape around the corner bend in the stream. Breed and another bandit set up a trap across a broader slower part of the river downstream with an underwater rope to snare Marshal Cogburn and his party. As the bandit hidden behind the shore rocks is about the kill Rooster in cold blood as he bends over and tries to free the raft from the snag, Breed shoots him in the back from behind, then standing up showing himself to Rooster and reminding him that it was in return for Rooster saving his life years prior. That night, Breed returns to the outlaws camp informing Hawk that the other bandit died in a shootout with Rooster. Hawk, checking Breeds gun, seeing only one expended bullet. Hawk now knowing that Breed had to have killed the other outlaw himself, launches himself at Breed in a furious violent rage and kicking the betraying scout down into a rocky ravine, killing him. The three heroes encounter massive white-water rapids the following morning. They managed to get through safely, though at the cost of losing the Gatling gun falling overboard. They hear horses up ahead and realize Hawk is planning to encounter them downriver at the wide shallow slow floating waters, so they dump the dynamite boxes overboard to float ahead of the damaged raft. Miss Eula and Wolf pretend to surrender, saying Marshal Cogburn is injured. He jumps up from being hidden behind the remaining boxes and shoots the several explosives boxes floating ahead with his sharpshooter rifle, blowing up Hawk and the several remaining bandits mounted on their horses. A few days later, Judge Parker, at the insistent demands of Miss Eula, gives Rooster his job back, especially when she compares him to the warrior Gideon in the Biblical Scriptures and mistakenly reveals Cogburns true first name of "Reuben" to the old judges amazement! Miss Eula and Wolf, say goodbye to Rooster as they, along with a number of settlers return to rebuild Fort Ruby, but jerks her horse back returning saying teary eyed that he is a credit to the whole male species and that she was proud to be his friend! Old Cogburn rears back in his saddle saying she got the last word in anyway!!
Rooster Cogburn (film)
1975