Marie de Flor (Jeanette MacDonald) is a Canadian soprano performing in Roméo et Juliette in Montreal; the Premier of Quebec is in the audience. Inviting him and his entourage to supper after the performance, she learns from a half-breed man called Boniface (George Regas), that her brother Jack, supposedly in prison for armed robbery, was wounded as he escaped from prison and has killed a Mountie in the process. Making her excuses, she leaves for the Canadian wilderness with Boniface, hoping to help Jack. At the same time, Sergeant Bruce, of the Mounties (Nelson Eddy) reports to headquarters and receives his latest mission: he must find Jack Flower, believed to be hiding near Lake Chibougam. Marie and Boniface reach an outpost near Lake Chibougam, where Boniface disappears with Maries money. Marie falls in with Sergeant Bruce, but Marie cannot tell him the truth for fear of compromising Jack. Marie tries singing at a local cafe to earn some money, but is unused to such boisterous singing and fails to attract any tips. Bruce insists that Marie reports Bonifaces theft, but she cannot admit her real identity, calling herself Rose. But Bruce has recognised her via her voice. They travel together to an Indian ceremony that night. Bruce, despite his strong sense of duty, proves to be a womaniser, and they sing together. Marie finds Boniface and they leave together. But Bruce has discovered that Rose Marie de Flor is really Jack Flowers sister and sets off after her, knowing that she will lead him to Jack. Boniface and Marie travel on horseback to Haymans Landing where Jack is hiding. Sergeant Bruce, following her, rescues her from drowning as they cross a deep river and Boniface runs off into the forest. Marie haughtily refuses the Sergeants help, but realises that she will not reach Jack without that help. She and the Sergeant travel together for the next three days, before she leaves him with a new guide. Marie finds Jack being nursed by Bonifaces Mother, and tries to persuade him to reform. She gives him the money necessary to escape and start over. But Bruce appears and arrests Jack. Marie begs him to let her brother go, but the Sergeant is unmoved by her plea. No more is heard of Jack, but Marie, although unwell, returns to opera performance. She has the title role in the opera Tosca. She keeps imagining that she hears "Indian Love Call" throughout the opera and collapses onstage just before the final curtain. She retires to a mountain lodge and refuses to sing for six months. Her manager, Myerson, visits and tells her how disappointed he is not to hear her voice again. After he leaves, she begins singing "Indian Love Call". Myerson urges Sergeant Bruce, who has been waiting in the foyer, to join her, and they sing together.
Rose Marie (1936 film)
1936