The king is sleeping peacefully in his bed until Mouseketeers Jerry and Tuffy sneak into his bedroom to help themselves to several leftover treats. Tuffy accidentally causes a grape to fly into the kings mouth. The king starts to suffocate, but Jerry causes the grape to be swallowed safely. The Mouseketeers decide to retreat, but Tuffy runs into a teacup and breaks it, waking up the king. Before he can apprehend the mice, the king ends up being stabbed in the nose by Jerry and angrily calls for Tom, who answers the summons moments later. The king tasks Tom with guarding his sleep, warning him not to be disturbed again or else he will have him beheaded. After the king has gone back to sleep, Jerry and Tuffy, who have overheard the kings instructions, sneak back into the room and begin to play various pranks with Tom. First they throw down a number of plates and dishes, forcing Tom to catch and precariously balance them out of the castle. As he rushes back in, Jerry scatters tacks across his path, driving Tom into exiting the castle yet again to release his scream of pain unhindered. Next, he confronts Jerry but is stabbed in the nose, making him cover the kings ears to prevent him from hearing his scream. In order to forestall waking up the king, Tom plugs the monarchs ears with champagne corks before confronting Jerry when he makes a suit of armor do a tap-dance. However, Tuffy closes up the kings nose and mouth with clothespins, and the pent-up breath makes the corks blow out. Tom hurriedly plays Brahmss Lullaby on a violin, and the king falls asleep again. Tom chases the mice outside, then locks all the doors, swallowing the key so that they cannot get back in. However, Jerry and Tuffy shoot an arrow from a crossbow through the keyhole into Toms backside. Tom tries to hold in his scream of pain until he can get outside, but with no way to get out, Tom is eventually forced to yell inside the room, causing the king to jerk awake. The king promptly threatens Tom with immediate execution, but Tuffy saves Toms life by singing Frère Jacques and thus sending the king back to sleep. Tom, Jerry and Tuffy tip-toe outside the room, shake hands together, and then resume their fight. Tuffys conclusion: "Cest la guerre." ("Thats war.")
Royal Cat Nap
1958