The film opens with a parody of Paramounts 1972 film The Godfather at the wedding reception of Lou Pickles and his new wife, Lulu (his first wife Trixie, the mother of Stu and Drew, died before the series began). A mother-child dance during the reception saddens Chuckie Finster, who realizes that he has lived over two years of his life without his mother, who died of an illness shortly after he was born. His father, Chas, shares Chuckies loneliness. Tommy Pickles father, Stu, is summoned to EuroReptarland, a Japanese amusement park in Paris, France, to fix a malfunctioning Reptar robot. Due to a misunderstanding (as the company only needed Stu but summoned him at midnight due to the time change while he was sleeping), Tommy, Chuckie, Phil, Lil, Angelica, Dil, their dog Spike, and all their parents travel to Paris to take a vacation at the park. Coco LaBouche, the cold-hearted, child-hating head of EuroReptarland, yearns to be the president of the entire Reptar franchise and its parent company, Yamaguchi Industries, after her employer, Mr. Yamaguchi, reveals his plans to retire as president. Yamaguchi says that his successor has to love children to be able to do the job, so LaBouche lies to him by claiming to be engaged to a man with a child. Upon the Rugrats arrival at EuroReptarland, Angelica overhears a conversation between Coco and Yamaguchi before being caught. To save herself, Angelica reveals that Chas is looking for a wife and suggests that Coco marry him. Coco strikes up a relationship with Chas, but her attempts to bond with Chuckie fail. The adults and babies meet Cocos overworked assistant Kira Watanabe and her daughter, Kimi, who hail from Japan, but are now living in France. Kira helps LaBouche to win Chas affections. Meanwhile, Spike gets lost in the streets of Paris and falls in love with a stray poodle named Fifi. Kira tells the babies the origins of Reptar, explaining he was a feared monster until a princess revealed his gentler side to make the frightened humans like him. Chuckie decides the princess should be his new mother, and is aided by his friends to reach an animatronic replica of the princess in the park, but they are stopped by Cocos ninja security guards. At the shows premiere, Angelica informs Coco of Chuckies wish, so Coco sneaks backstage and takes the spotlight as the princess, luring Chuckie into her arms to make her seem wonderful with children. Chas is ecstatic, deciding she would make an excellent mother and decides on the spot to marry her. On her wedding day, Coco, aided by her accomplice Jean-Claude, kidnaps the children and traps them in a warehouse, including Angelica. Kira confronts Coco about deceiving Chas and Chuckie and she throws her out of the limo. Chuckie rallies the children to crash his fathers wedding at the Notre Dame cathedral using the Reptar robot. They are chased by Jean-Claude, who pilots Reptars nemesis, the Robosnail robot. The chase culminates in a fight on a bridge, and Chuckie knocks Robosnail into the Seine River. Chuckie crashes the wedding, and Coco pretends to be happy to see Chuckie, but Jean-Claude bursts in and accidentally reveals Cocos true nature by announcing that her kidnapping plot had failed. Chas, seeing Coco for the liar she truly is, calls the wedding off. Angelica reveals Cocos plans to Yamaguchi, who is also in attendance, and the former president fires Coco from EuroReptarland for her treachery. When Coco tries to leave, she realizes the babies are on her wedding train and angrily yanks them off in front of everyone. Angelica, as Coco leaves the church, stomps on the wedding dress and rips it, revealing her underwear. Spike chases the humiliated and defeated Coco from the church with Jean-Claude in tow. Kira arrives at the church to return Chuckies bear having been thrown out of the limo earlier and apologizes to Chas for what Coco did to him and Chuckie. Chas and Kira eventually fall in love with each other and get married upon returning to the United States. Spikes new girlfriend, Fifi, is adopted by the Finster family. Chuckie gets Kira as a new mother, and Kimi as a new sister.
Rugrats in Paris: The Movie
2003