Minnie visits Mickey while he is playing a Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs-based video game and is upset to find that he has forgotten the anniversary of their first date due to his addiction to the game. Mickey comes up with the last-minute idea to take her to a miniature golf course and shows her a newspaper ad for it, but she instead notices another ad for a trip to Hawaii, which costs $999.99, and mistakes it for Mickeys gift. Mickey frets over how he can make enough money for the trip when Pluto shows him an ad to work with a mad scientist named Dr. Frankollie for a day of "mindless work" that would pay $999.99. Upon reaching the home of the primate-like Dr. Frankenollie, Mickey is dropped down a trapdoor into Frankenollies laboratory; the doctor reveals a plan to switch Mickeys brain with that of the twenty-foot-tall creature Julius. The experiment causes an explosion that kills Frankenollie, but the brain transfer is a success, with Mickeys mind ending up in Julius giant body and Julius in control of Mickeys body. The dimwitted and insane Julius finds Mickeys wallet and notices a photo of Minnie, whom he instantly becomes smitten with. He escapes from the laboratory and finds Minnie while she is shopping for swimsuits; Minnie immediately mistakes Julius for Mickey. Mickey arrives in Julius body to save Minnie, but Minnie mistakes Mickey for a monster and screams for help until Mickey convinces her of who he is and places her on the top of a 50-story building. Julius continues to pursue Minnie, leading to a battle between Mickey and Julius during which they land on a telephone line and are nearly electrocuted. However, this also causes their minds to switch back to their original bodies. Mickey continues to fight Julius, the two of them reaching the top of a skyscraper, and he manages to rescue Minnie as well as tie Julius down with rope. Mickey uses a massive billboard for a Hawaiian vacation getaway to suspend Julius over the city streets, the creature ending up flying up and down like a yo-yo. Finally, the two travel to Hawaii together on an inflatable boat pulled by Julius as he swims after the photo of Minnie in Mickeys wallet, which is attached to a fishing line manned by Mickey.
Runaway Brain
1995