Augusten Burroughs mother, Deirdre, who wishes to become a famous poet, suffers from severe mood swings and erratic behavior. Augustens alcoholic father, Norman, proves to be of no help. By the time he is a young teenager, Augusten no longer feels safe in his own house because of his parents. Deirdre loudly claims that Norman is the reason for her unhappiness, and that he desires to kill her. She ultimately sends then 13-year-old Augusten to live with her psychiatrist, Dr. Finch, the eccentric ("Everyone... a miracle... see.. my turd is a direct communication from the Holy Father") patriarch of an oddball family, which consists of his submissive wife Agnes, religious older daughter Hope, and his rebellious younger daughter Natalie, who is slightly older than Augusten. Augusten finds it hard to adjust to living with the Finchs, and is subject to irregular weekend visits by his increasingly unsound mother. After confessing to Natalie that he is gay, Augusten befriends Neil Bookman, Finchs patient and adopted 33-year-old son. The two begin an erratic sexual relationship quickly after meeting, but Augusten finds it difficult to cope with their age difference. Consistent with a confidence pattern seen with the family of Neil – and with a 41-year-old patient who abused Natalie, and with young adult patient Dorothy Ambrose – Dr. Finch manipulates Deirdre into signing over her money to him. By the time of Augustens 15th birthday, Deirdre has found temporary stability with her living companion Dorothy ("Ive always wanted a daughter"), leaving Augusten feeling like his mother no longer wants him, while also dealing with the negative effects of Neils schizophrenia and Dorothys animosity. A few years later, the still teenaged Augusten leaves for New York to become a writer. He says goodbye to his mother and goes to the bus station. Agnes, with whom he has developed a caring relationship, arrives and gives him some money she has saved up. In a mid-credits vignette, it is shown that Dr. Finch lost his license for insurance fraud and died in 2000, Agnes went to work in a nursing home, Natalie earned a degree in psychology, Hope worked with her dad until his death, Norman re-established contact with Augusten and died in 2005, Deidre remains estranged from her son, Neil was never heard from again, and Augusten (the real Augusten, seen onscreen sitting beside the films Augusten) wrote a book.
Running with Scissors (film)
2006