The movie takes place in April 1961, prior to the proposed Bay of Pigs Invasion. Two soldiers, LeRoy Beecher (Judge Reinhold) and Chaz McClain (Ken Wahl), are just finishing a two-year Infantry tour in the Army in Panama. They hitch a ride on a military C-47 back to their home state, Florida. LeRoy has stolen a footlocker full of surveillance equipment (punishable with time in Leavenworth). During the flight to Florida the plane makes a brief stopover on some secret Caribbean island base. While at the island LeRoy, goofing around, unwittingly takes photographs of the base and of Chaz (thereby identifying him) with an infra-red camera. He leaves the tear-off part of the negative on the C-47s floor. The plane then continues to Florida, where Leroy and Chaz disembark and workers (presumably anti-castrist Cubans) sweep up the aircraft and find LeRoys camera tear-off. The workers take the negative to two superiors (John Saxon and Bradford Dillman), who are planning an invasion of Cuba from the secret island base. They develop LeRoys negatives and now can visually identify Chaz. The anti-castrists know the plane was heading to Florida and now think that LeRoy and Chaz are spies sent to give away the secret of the island base and presumed invasion. Saxon and Dillman assemble a large number of armed men and proceed to search for and locate LeRoy and Chaz throughout the Florida Everglades. When Chaz and LeRoy return home they try to re-adjust to civilian life. They thumb a ride with a teenage boy who is on his way to school and drives a souped-up hot rod car. The boy, who has fantasies of joining the army himself, gives Chaz and LeRoy a crazy high-speed ride through the back country, dropping them off in town. Afterward, they go to a diner where the latest music Del Shannon ("Runaway") and Ronnie Dawson ("Decided By The Angels") is playing on a jukebox and they encounter two young high school girls with a station wagon. One of the teenage girls shows LeRoy a new dance called The Twist. The boys go to a secluded spot with the girls and "score" with the girls before they go off to school. However, the boys have not been off the plane for long before Saxons armed men, having identified them in the diner, are chasing and shooting at them in the night. LeRoy makes it out of the first ambush and gets back to his parents home. Chaz loses contact with him but survives the ambush. The next morning Chaz is searching for LeRoy when a fancy convertible driven by an attractive, rich young woman named Sallie Mae stops to give him a lift. She at first refuses to take Chaz to LeRoys parents house, and he threatens to cut up her car seats with a razor blade if she abandons him on the road. Sallie Mae consents to take Chaz to LeRoys parents house deep in the Everglades swamp, where her car breaks down in the driveway. LeRoy, Chaz and Sallie Mae are reunited. It is revealed that LeRoys father "Pa" Beecher (Lonny Chapman) runs an illegal moonshine operation. The Beechers, Pa and Ma, have been out shopping and return to encounter Chaz and Sallie Mae who helps Ma Beecher with the groceries. Pa Beechers temper hits the roof when he sees Sallie Maes broken down convertible in the driveway, as it easily gives away the location of his home and that hes running an illegal liquor operation. The soldiers track Chaz and LeRoy to LeRoys parents home after spotting Sallie Maes car. A shootout occurs at the Beecher home. Pa Beecher is angry that his moonshine secret is out, and curses his son LeRoy. LeRoy, along with Chaz and Sallie Mae, steal one of Mister Beechers airboats and an exciting long chase continues through the swamp. Chaz later returns to his own fathers (Pat Hingle) house and encounters his old girlfriend. She, seeing Sallie Mae, thinks that Chaz has impregnated Sallie Mae. Sallie Mae also returns with Chaz to her parents (who are vacationing in Europe) palatial estate and the two clean themselves up. After much adventure eluding Saxon, Dillman and their men, LeRoy and Chaz eventually overcome them. A romance has developed between Chaz and the wealthy Sallie Mae.
Running Scared (1980 film)
1980