A smoking, drinking, jazz listening, young prostitute named Sadie Thompson (Gloria Swanson) arrives at Pago Pago (now part of American Samoa), on her way to a job with a shipping line on another island. At the same time, moralists arrive, including Mr. and Mrs. Davidson (Lionel Barrymore and Blanche Friderici). They all end up staying in the same hotel, where the Davidsons plot to teach the natives about sin and Sadie entertains a bunch of Marines. Sadie begins to fall in love with Sergeant Timothy OHara (Raoul Walsh), who is not fazed by her past. He tells her that he has a best friend who married a former prostitute, and the couple now live happily in Australia. Davidson sets about trying to redeem Sadie, much to her disgust. He tricks her into telling him about her past in San Francisco and, once she refuses to repent, he declares that he will go to the Governor and have her deported. Sadie is terrified of the threat, but OHara assures her that it will not happen. He tells her he wishes she would go to Australia and wait for his term of service to finish, after which they can get married. She agrees. Davidson gets his way, however, and Sadie is livid. She and OHara go to the Governor, begging him to let her go to Australia instead of back to San Francisco. Davidson has also managed to get OHara punished for being immoral, but Sadie will be able to go to Australia instead if Davidson approves. Sadie pleads with him, but to no avail. She eventually confesses that, if she goes back to San Francisco, there is "a man there who wont let her go straight", which is what she wants to do. Davidson figures out this means that there is a warrant for her arrest back in San Francisco. Sadie claims that she was framed and is innocent, but will go to prison if she is sent back. Davidson still refuses, saying she must atone for her past. Sadie pleads and pleads and eventually offers to repent. Davidson, however, says that the only way to fully repent is for her to go to prison. Sadie runs to her room, crying out for Davidson. Davidson returns and Sadie confesses she is afraid. Davidson then tells her that, if she repents, there will be nothing to fear and he begins to pray with her. Sadie converts to Christianity. Sadie prays for three whole days. She has put away her old things and has become a modest woman. OHara returns and finds Davidson is gone, apparently "trying to stop the locals from dancing on the beach". OHara tells Sadie that he has a fishing boat waiting to take her and her things to a ship that will then take her to Australia, where they can marry and be free. Sadie is extremely afraid and refuses to go, saying that the "old Sadie is dead" and she must go to San Francisco and prison, to repent. OHara does everything he can, including forcibly taking her from the room, but Davidson is waiting outside. OHara tries to attack him, but Sadie asks him not to. OHara, extremely upset, leaves and Sadie pleads with Davidson not to get him in trouble, for "it was all her fault". Later that night, Sadie is asleep and everyone else is heading to bed. Davidson can not sleep and goes out for a walk in the rain. (It has rained almost continuously.) His wife says he cannot sleep for "the unpleasant dreams hes been having about Miss Thompson". A fellow boarder suspects they are not "all that unpleasant". Outside, Davidson struggles with himself and realizes that he is sexually attracted to Sadie and unable to handle it. He looks into her window and eventually returns to his room. Sadie, frightened because she heard noises, is waiting in Davidsons room. Davidson is shocked and sends her back to her room. The last reel is missing, but fishermen find Davidsons body. He has committed suicide. Sadie and OHara reconcile and head for Australia.
Sadie Thompson
1928