Note: the story is told from the viewpoint of Corporal Robert Dunne (Arthur Franz). Tough-as-nails career Marine Sergeant John Stryker (John Wayne) is greatly disliked by the men of his squad, particularly the combat replacements, for the rigorous training he puts them through. He is especially despised by PFC Peter "Pete" Conway (John Agar), the arrogant, college-educated son of an officer, Colonel Sam Conway under whom Stryker served and admired, and PFC Al Thomas (Forrest Tucker), who blames him for his demotion. When Stryker leads his squad in the invasion of Tarawa, the men begin to appreciate his methods. Within the first couple of minutes of the battle, the platoon leader, Lt. Baker (Gil Herman), is killed only seconds after he lands on the beach, PFC "Farmer" Soames (James Holden) is wounded in the leg, and PFC Choynski (Hal Baylor) receives a head wound. The marines are aggressively pinned down by a pillbox. Able Company commander Captain Joyce (John McGuire) takes charge and he begins to send out marines to silence the pillbox. As a result of three unsuccessful attempts to reach the pillbox, two demolition marines and a flamethrower operator are killed and PFC Shipley (Richard Webb) is left mortally wounded in the line of fire. Sgt. Stryker takes action and demolishes the pillbox. Shipley would eventually die of his wounds in front of his best friend Regazzi (Wally Cassell). Later on, Thomas becomes distracted from his mission, and "goofs off" when he goes to get ammunition for two comrades, stopping to savor a cup of coffee. As a result, though he brings back coffee for his squadmates, he returns too late — the two Marines, now out of ammunition, in the interim are shown being overrun; Hellenopolis (Peter Coe) is killed, Bass (James Brown) badly wounded. On their first night, the squad is ordered to dig in and hold their positions under the cover of darkness. Bass lies wounded from a distance and begs for help. Conway considers Stryker brutal and unfeeling when he decides to apparently abandon Bass to the enemy. After the battle, Stryker discovers the truth he forces Thomas into a fistfight. This is seen by a passing officer (Don Haggerty) but Thomas, to Strykers surprise, deflects the officers intention of pressing charges against Stryker for violation of military rules in striking a subordinate by claiming that he was merely being taught judo by his superior. Subsequently, ravaged by his conscience over the fate of his fellow Marines, Thomas breaks down and abjectly apologizes for his dereliction of duty. The squad receives three new recruits: Stein (Leonard Gumley), Fowler (William Self), and McHugh (Martin Milner). Stryker reveals a softer side of his character while on leave in Honolulu. He picks up a bargirl (Julie Bishop) and returns with her to her apartment. He becomes suspicious when he hears somebody in the next room, but upon investigation, finds only a hungry baby boy that his intended paramour is supporting the best way she can. Stryker gives the woman, whose childs father was "gone," some money and departs. The woman had earlier noted that there were "worse ways to make a living than fighting a war," in reference to her current lot in life. Later, during a training exercise, McHugh drops a live hand grenade. Everybody drops to the ground, except Conway, who is distracted reading a letter from his wife. Stryker knocks him down, saving his life, and then proceeds to bawl him out in front of the platoon.  Strykers squad subsequently fights in the battle for Iwo Jima. The squad suffers heavily within the first couple of hours, losing Soames, McHugh, Harris (George Tyne), and Frank Flynn (Richard Jaeckel). Strykers squad is selected to be a part of the 40 man patrol that will charge up Mount Suribachi. During the charge, Eddie Flynn (William Murphy), Stein, and Fowler are killed. While the remaining men were resting during a lull in the fighting, Stryker is killed by a Japanese soldier emerging from a spider hole. Bass quickly locates the spider hole and kills the Japanese shooter. The remaining squad members (Conway, Thomas, Dunne, Regazzi, and Bass) find and read a letter on his corpse, a missive addressed to his son and expressing things Stryker wanted to say to him, but had never actually managed to. Moments later, the squad witnesses the iconic flag raising.
Sands of Iwo Jima
1949