In the distant future, an overcrowded Earth relies on research conducted by scientists in remote stations across the solar system. Contact is maintained by spaceships shuttling between the stations and large orbiting space stations. Captain James is preparing to depart from one of these stations when he is murdered by Captain Benson (Keitel). Benson, who was marked "Potentially unstable" on a mental exam, steals Jamess cargo ship and departs the station for one of the remote stations, a small experimental hydroponics research station on Saturns third moon. Arriving there, he finds the station run solely by Adam (Douglas) and his colleague and lover Alex (Fawcett). Adam, the younger Alex, and their dog, Sally, enjoy their isolation far from an overcrowded and troubled Earth. The couple have been on Saturn 3 for three years, but Alex has spent all her life in space, and knows little of the habits and mores of humans who live on Earth. Alex and Adams idyll is broken when Benson reveals his mission is to replace at least one of the moons scientists with a robot. The robot - named Hector - is one of the first of its kind, a "Demigod Series", relying on "pure brain tissue" extracted from human fetuses and programmed using a direct link to Bensons brain. Adam tells Alex that he is the likely candidate for removal, being that hes close to "abort time" and will have to leave anyway. With Hector assembled, Benson begins preparing the robot, using the neural link implanted in Bensons spine. So connected to Benson, Hector quickly learns of Bensons failure on the test of psychological stability, and also of his murder of James. With little barrier between the robots brain and Bensons, Hector is soon imprinted with Bensons homicidal nature and his lust for Alex. The robot rebels. Adam and Benson manage to disable the robot while its recharging, and remove the brain. Believing the danger over, Adam accuses Benson of gross incompetence, ordering him to dismantle the robot and return to Earth when an eclipse ends (this eclipse also prevents communication to other stations). Unknown to Benson, Adam, or Alex, Hector remains functional enough to take control of the bases older robots, using them to reassemble his body and reconnect his brain. Unaware of Hectors resurgence, Benson attempts to leave the station while dragging Alex with him. Resuscitated, Hector murders Benson before he can leave with Alex. Hector destroys Bensons spacecraft before the scientist can escape in it, trapping them all on Saturn 3, and assumes control of the stations computer. Trapped in the control room, both Alex and Adam are surprised to see Bensons face on their monitor. The two are directed by a voice they recognize as Bensons to leave the control room, both surprised that Benson is even alive. To their shock,the two are confronted by Hector, now wearing Bensons decapitated head. A short time later, Alex and Adam wake in their own rooms. To her horror, Alex finds that Hector has installed a brain link at the top of Adams spine, much like the one that Benson had, and one which will give Hector direct access to Adams brain. Before Hector can make the connection, Adam destroys it, sacrificing himself by detonating explosives hidden on his person. In the final scene, Alex, now alone, is shown aboard an Earth-bound spacecraft.
Saturn 3 (film)
1980