After being left in the bathroom to die, Detective Eric Matthews breaks his foot with a toilet lid to escape his shackle. Six months later, the aftermath of a Jigsaw "game" is discovered by a SWAT team. The victim was meant to rip chains from his body in order to escape from a bomb. Detective Allison Kerry arrives at the scene, and points out that the rooms exit was welded shut, breaking Jigsaws modus operandi of giving his victims a chance to survive. While reviewing the videotape, she is abducted and awakens in a harness hooked into her ribs. Kerry manages to retrieve the key and unlock it before the timer expires, but it kills her anyway. Dr. Lynn Denlon is abducted from the hospital where she works, and brought to the bedridden John Kramer. His apprentice, Amanda, locks a collar around Lynns neck that is connected to Johns heart rate monitor and will detonate if John dies or Lynn moves out of range. She is instructed by Amanda to keep him alive until another victim has completed his game. The other victim Jeff, wakes up in a box and learns that he must undergo tests which will lead him to the man who killed his son Dylan in a drunk driving accident. Jeff became unstable and vengeful as a result, and now neglects his daughter. Jeffs first test leads him into a meat freezer. He finds Danica Scott, the only witness of Dylans death, who refused to testify in court; she is chained at the wrists between two poles which begin spraying her with ice-cold water. Danica manages to convince Jeff to help her, but freezes to death before he can retrieve the key. His second test leads him to a vat, at the bottom of which Judge Halden, who gave Dylans killer six months in jail, is chained at the neck. Large pigs drop into a liquidizer and spray Halden, but Jeff sets fire to a cage full of Dylans toys in order to retrieve the key and saves Halden before he drowns. His third test involves Timothy Young, Dylans killer, who is strapped to a machine that will twist his limbs and neck until they break. The key is tied to the trigger of an enclosed shotgun. Jeff accidentally kills Halden when he takes the key, and is unable to stop the machine before Timothys neck breaks. Meanwhile, Lynn is forced to perform an improvised surgery to remove pressure on Johns brain. During the surgery, John hallucinates about another woman and declares his love out loud. This upsets Amanda and when she leaves, she finds a letter which drives her to hysterics. Amanda returns with the news that Jeff has completed his tests, but refuses to remove Lynns collar. She reveals that she no longer believes in Johns philosophy which is why her traps are inescapable. She also reveals that she fought with Eric Matthews after he escaped the bathroom and left him for dead. Refusing to listen to Johns warnings, Amanda shoots Lynn just as Jeff arrives. He retaliates by shooting Amanda with a gun provided by John after his tests. As Amanda dies, John reveals that Lynns test was actually hers: aware of her modus operandi, and unwilling to allow a murderer to inherit his legacy, he decided to test her. It is then revealed that Jeff is, in fact, Lynns husband. John then addresses Jeff, offering to call an ambulance for Lynn if he accepts one last test: he can choose to kill John or forgive him. Jeff tells John he forgives him, but slashes his throat with a power saw. The door to the room seals as John plays a final tape, which tells Jeff that he has failed his test by killing John, the only person who knows the whereabouts of his daughter. The tape ends as John dies, and the collar detonates and kills Lynn, leaving Jeff trapped in the room with the three corpses.
Saw III
2007