A wax-coated microcassette is found in John Kramers stomach during his autopsy, and reveals to Detective Mark Hoffman that the games will continue and he will still be tested. Elsewhere, two men - one with his eyes sewn shut, the other with his mouth sewn shut - awaken in a mausoleum, chained at the neck to a winch. The blinded man panics and activates the winch before attacking the muted man, who kills him in self-defense and uses a key from his collar to free himself. Four days after Allison Kerrys death, a SWAT team led by Hoffman and Lieutenant Daniel Rigg find her body, and Hoffman warns Rigg against breaking through an unsecured door to reach her. The scene is also investigated by Peter Strahm and Lindsey Perez, Kerrys FBI contacts, who received a message and a key from her. Noting John and Amanda Youngs physical limitations, Strahm speculates that a third accomplice was involved and soon becomes suspicious of Rigg, who has developed an obsession with saving people in the six months since the disappearance of detective Eric Matthews. That night, Rigg is attacked in his home; and awakens to learn that Eric is still alive and he has ninety minutes to save him, with Hoffmans life at risk as well. Meanwhile, he must play his own game in order to face and overcome his obsession. Rigg finds a prostitute, named Brenda, bound to a chair in his living room, and accidentally activates the trap, which slowly tears her scalp off. He manages to free her, but kills her in self-defense when she attacks him with a knife in order to evade arrest. Rigg is then led to a motel and instructed to abduct the owner, Ivan Landsness, who Rigg later finds out is a serial rapist. He forces Ivan onto a bed, which requires Ivan to blind both of his eyes in order to escape. However, Ivan only blinds one of his eyes, and the trap dismembers him. Next, Rigg is led to a school, where he finds a married couple impaled by metal spikes: Rex, who has already died from blood loss; and his abused wife Morgan, who has remained alive at his expense by pulling the spikes from both of their bodies. Rigg pulls out the last spike and gives her a key to free herself. He then turns on a fire alarm and goes to the location of his final test. The agents alternate between investigating the scenes and questioning Jill Tuck, Johns ex-wife. Jill reveals John worked in civil engineering and property development, and that she miscarried her son Gideon after seven months when Cecil Adams, a drug addict, slammed a door into her stomach while robbing her health clinic. At the motel, the agents learn that the room was rented out to a lawyer named Art Blank, the survivor of the mausoleum trap, who vanished two weeks prior. Art is revealed to be the man overseeing the current game when he hands Eric a gun. At the school, the agents learn that all three victims, and Jill were Arts clients. Strahm and Perez find a puppet and a tape recorder in another room, which plays a cryptic message for Perez before its face explodes, sending shrapnel into her face. After Perez is hospitalized, Strahm furiously questions Jill. He learns how Kramer ended his work with Art after falling into his depression, and that Cecil became the first victim of Johns "games". Strahm connects her story and a prior clue to the Gideon Meatpacking Plant, the location of Riggs final test. Strahm arrives after Rigg, but ends up following Jeff Denlon. After finding Jeff in the sickroom, Strahm shoots him in self-defense when Jeff demands his daughter back. Meanwhile, Art pulls out a device which will free them when the timer expires; if used before then, a pair of pincers will sever his spine. Rigg finds them and is shot by Eric as he breaks into the room with one second to spare, releasing two overhead ice blocks that swing down and crush Erics head, killing him. Rigg shoots and kills Art, believing he is responsible for the game, only to learn from Arts tape recorder that his interference caused Erics death. Hoffman, the actual accomplice, releases himself from the chair, but leaves Rigg to die. He then seals Strahm in the sickroom and leaves the plant. The scene then cuts to Hoffman at the morgue, revealing that Johns autopsy took place after the events of the film.
Saw IV
2008