Informant Michael Marks awakens in a room with a spike-filled mask locked around his neck. A videotape informs him that in order to unlock the device, he must cut into his eye to obtain the key. He sets off the timer and finds the scalpel, but cannot bring himself to retrieve the key and is killed after sixty seconds when the mask closes. At the scene of Marks game, Detective Allison Kerry finds a message for her former partner, Eric Matthews, and calls him in. Despite not wanting to be involved in the case, Eric reluctantly joins Kerry and Sergeant Daniel Rigg in leading a SWAT team to the factory which produced the lock from Marks trap. There they find and apprehend John Kramer, the Jigsaw Killer, who is weak from cancer. He indicates several computer monitors showing eight people trapped in a house; including his only known survivor Amanda Young, and Erics estranged son Daniel. The other victims are called Xavier, Gus, Jonas, Laura, Addison and Obi. A nerve agent filling the house will kill them all within two hours, but Kramer assures Eric that if he follows the rules of his own game, by simply talking with John, he will see Daniel again. At Kerrys urging, Eric agrees in order to buy time for the tech team to arrive and trace the video signal. The victims are informed by a microcassette recorder that antidotes are hidden throughout the house; one is in the rooms safe, and a cryptic clue is provided. Xavier ignores a warning note and uses a key on the door, which fires a bullet through the peephole and Gus eye, killing him. They search the house for more antidotes after the room lets them out, with no success. Obi, who is revealed to have helped with the abductions, is forced into a crematory oven to obtain two antidotes inside, but inadvertently activates the trap and is burned to death before the others can save him, destroying the antidotes. In another room, Xavier throws Amanda into a syringe-filled pit intended for himself, and though she is able to retrieve the key, he is unable to unlock the door containing an antidote and he leaves out of frustration. Throughout the game, the victims discuss connections between them and determine that each has been jailed before; with the sole exception of Daniel. Meanwhile, John passes the time with both idle and cryptic chat, eventually telling Eric that his survival of a suicide attempt after his diagnosis is the true reason for his games. With the little time he has left, he wants to inspire in others the new appreciation for life he had found. Not interested in any of this, Eric runs out of patience and returns to the monitors. He destroys several of Johns documents and sketches at Kerrys suggestion, but fails to provoke John. As the tech team arrives, John reveals the connection between the victims: Eric has framed all of them for various crimes, and Daniel will be in danger if his identity is discovered. Having left the others, Xavier returns to the safe room and finds a colored number on the back of Guss neck. After realizing the answer to the clue, he kills Jonas with a spiked bat for his number after a brief fight and begins hunting the others. Laura succumbs to the nerve agent after finding the clue revealing Daniels identity. Addison and Amanda abandon him, but Amanda returns after finding Jonas body. Addison finds a glass box containing an antidote, but her arms become trapped in the arm holes which are lined with hidden blades, and Xavier leaves her to die after reading her number. Amanda and Daniel find a tunnel in the safe room which leads to the bathroom from the first film. Daniel collapses inside just before Xavier finds them. Amanda notes that he cannot read his own number, and he cuts the skin from his neck. As he approaches, Daniel, who feigned his collapse, jumps up and slashes his neck with a hacksaw, killing him. Having seen Xavier chasing his son, Eric brutally assaults John and forces him to lead him to the house. Johns sitting area is revealed to be a lift, which they use to leave the factory. The tech team tracks the videos source and Rigg leads his team to a house, where they find VCRs playing previously recorded images. As Kerry realizes the game took place before they found John, the timer expires and a large safe opens, revealing Daniel bound and breathing into an oxygen mask. Eric enters the house alone and eventually locates the bathroom, where he is attacked by a pig-masked figure. He awakens shackled at the ankle to a pipe; a tape recorder left by Amanda reveals that she is Johns accomplice and intends to continue his work after he dies. Amanda appears in the doorway and seals the door, leaving Eric to die.
Saw II
2006