Two men, Brad and Ryan, awaken in a Metropolitan Storefront, bound at the wrists to opposite sides of a worktable with a circular saw in front of each of them. Their mutual lover, Dina, is suspended above a third saw, and a puppet informs the men that Dina has been manipulating both of them, driving them into criminal activity to fulfill her material desires. The puppet says they can either kill each other or let Dina die. They initially fight each other, during which Brad is cut by the saw, but ultimately choose to allow Dina to die instead. After witnessing Mark Hoffmans survival, Jill Tuck meets Matt Gibson, an internal affairs detective from the precinct where he works, and incriminates him in exchange for protection and immunity from prosecution. Gibson, who has distrusted Hoffman for years, agrees to her terms. Meanwhile, Hoffman abducts a skinhead gang – Dan, Evan, Jake, and Kara – and places them in a junkyard trap that kills them all, leaving the reverse bear trap at the scene to incriminate Jill, who is later put into protective custody. After a meeting of Jigsaw survivors, including Lawrence Gordon, who cauterized his leg on a steam pipe after escaping the bathroom, Hoffman abducts Bobby Dagen, a self-help guru who achieved fame and fortune by falsifying a story of his own survival. He sends Gibson some videos with cryptic clues to the games location, offering to end the games if Jill is given to him. Dagen awakens in a cage in an abandoned asylum and is told that his wife Joyce will die if he doesnt save her within one hour. Joyce is chained at the neck to a steel platform that gradually pulls her down as she watches Dagens progress. After he escapes the cage, which dangles over a floor of spikes, he begins searching for Joyce. Along the way, he finds Nina, his publicist; Suzanne, his lawyer; and Cale, his best friend and co-conspirator, all in separate traps representing the three wise monkeys and they are killed despite Dagens efforts to save them. After removing his upper wisdom teeth to obtain the combination for a security door, Dagen finds Joyce and is forced to reenact the trap he claimed to have survived: he must drive hooks through his pectoral muscles and hoist himself up to the ceiling to deactivate her trap. He fails nonetheless, and is forced to watch as a brazen bull capsule closes around Joyce and incinerates her to death. Gibson eventually discovers the games location and sends a SWAT team, who are sealed in another room and killed by toxic gas. Simultaneously, he and two officers infiltrate Hoffmans command center in the junkyard, where they find Dans corpse sitting in front of several monitors connected to the police headquarters security cameras. He sees Hoffman brought into the morgue in a body bag and tries to warn Palmer, but an automatic turret gun rises up and kills him along with his men. Hoffman kills Dr. Heffner, Palmer, and everyone else in his path to Jill, who briefly escapes before she is caught and knocked unconscious. He straps her to a chair and locks a reverse bear trap to her head; she awakens as the timer starts and is killed when the trap activates, tearing her jaws apart. After destroying his workshop, Hoffman is attacked and subdued by three pig-masked figures, one of whom is Lawrence Gordon. Flashbacks show that John Kramer found him unconscious by the steam pipe and nursed him back to health, and Gordon has assisted him ever since. This was known only by Jill, who delivered a package to him at the hospital, which contained a videotape in which Kramer asked him to watch over Jill and take action if anything happened to her. To this end, Gordon has Hoffman brought to the bathroom from the first film and shackled by the ankle to a pipe. When Gordon appears, he throws the hacksaw he used to sever his own foot out the door, turns off the lights, and seals the door, leaving Hoffman to die.
Saw VII
2010