Two predatory lenders wake up in a room with a caged-in scale, wearing head harnesses with screws aimed at their temples, and the one who sets more flesh weight on their scale will survive. The overweight Eddie cuts fat from his torso, but Simone chops off her arm, and Eddie is killed when the timer expires. As he reviews the games footage, Detective Lieutenant Mark Hoffman is called over by FBI Agent Dan Erickson, who found Peter Strahms fingerprints at the scene. Also present is Lindsey Perez, whose survival was covered up by Erickson for her protection. They learn from Dr. Adam Heffner, the coroner who performed the autopsies for all of the Jigsaw victims thus far, that the knife used to cut the jigsaw piece from Eddies flesh was only used once before, on Seth Baxter. The agents intend to find the Baxter audio tape to prove Strahms involvement. While at the hospital to meet with Simone, Hoffman is met by reporter Pamela Jenkins, who claims to have found something at the meatpacking plant. He later meets with Jill Tuck at her clinic and tells her that he is taking control of the games. Jill gives him five envelopes from the box left to her in John Kramers will, each containing photos of people to be tested. After he leaves, a flashback reveals that John brought Amanda Young to Jill, who had deemed her a lost cause, as proof that his methods work. A later flashback, as Jill delivers a package from the box to the hospital, shows that Jill met with John at the plant hours before his death, where he gave her the boxs key and his promise that she would be protected when the games ended. William Easton, an insurance executive for Umbrella Health, meets with Debbie, the companys attorney, about Harold Abbott, who succumbed to heart disease after his coverage request was denied due to an application discrepancy. Hoffman abducts Easton from his office that night and brings him to an abandoned zoo, where he and his janitor, Hank, awaken in vises designed to tighten around their torsos each time they breathe into oxygen masks strapped to their faces. John himself appears in a videotape and informs William that he has one hour to complete four tests and remove the bombs strapped to his limbs, or he will lose his family. Hank, a heavy smoker, is unable to hold his breath and is killed by the vise. Williams other tests force him to choose which of his workers to save from various traps, including a hanging room, a steam room, and carousel trap. Flashbacks show that John met William at the opening of Jills clinic and took issue with his formula for only deeming policyholders worthy of coverage. After his cancer was diagnosed, Johns coverage request for an experimental Norwegian treatment was rejected by William. The game is viewed by a woman named Tara and her son Brent from a cage below the observation room, which contains a tank of hydrofluoric acid and a switch marked "Live" and "Die". Pamela awakens in another cage on the other side of the room. During the game, Hoffman is called away by Erickson and Perez, who found the Baxter audio tape and are having it unscrambled by an offsite technician. They inform him that abnormalities were found in Strahms fingerprints, and Erickson eventually reveals their knowledge of Strahms death. The moment his voice is unscrambled, Hoffman kills everyone in the room, with Perez mockingly telling him that everyone already knows of his involvement before she dies. He then plants fingerprints using Strahms severed hand, before dowsing fuel on the room and setting it on fire to destroy the evidence. He returns to the observation room and finds the letter he had written to Amanda, in which he had used his knowledge of her role in Jills miscarriage to blackmail her into killing Lynn Denlon. The letter was found by Pamela and given to Jill, who uses it to ambush Hoffman as William reaches the end of his path with one second left, finding himself between the cages. It is revealed that Pamela is his sister, while Tara and Brent are Harolds family. Tara is informed by a videotape of Kramer that she can either kill William or free him using the switch; when she is unable to make a decision, Brent angrily shifts the switch to "Die" and a bed of needles swings down and injects Williams body with the acid, killing him. Jill restrains Hoffman and locks a new reverse bear trap to his head. She shows him the sixth envelope from Johns will, which contains his photo, and leaves him with 45 seconds but no key. Hoffman escapes by breaking his hand to free his wrist restraints and jams the trap in window bars as it activates. He then pulls his head free, ripping open his cheek in the process and screams in agony.
Saw VI
2010