Ace pilot, Major Lloyd "Ace" Gruver (Marlon Brando), of the United States Air Force, the son of a U.S. Army general, is stationed at Itami Air Force Base near Kobe, Japan. He has been reassigned from his active duties in Korea by General Webster, the father of his fiancée, Eileen. Airman Joe Kelly (Red Buttons), who is Aces enlisted crew chief, is about to wed a Japanese woman, Katsumi (Miyoshi Umeki), in spite of the disapproval of the United States military establishment, which will not recognize the inter-racial marriage. The Air Force, including Ace, is against the marriage. Ace and Joe have an argument during which Ace uses a racial slur to describe Katsumi. Ace eventually apologizes, then agrees to be Joes best man at the wedding. Ace falls in love with a Japanese entertainer, Hana-ogi (Miiko Taka), who is a performer for a Takarazuka-like theater company, whom he meets through Katsumi. Eileen realizes that Aces attentions are no longer focused on her and begins a friendship with a famous Kabuki performer, Nakamura (Ricardo Montalban). When she overhears that Joes house has been under surveillance by the Army, she believes that Ace is in danger and goes there to warn him, where she realizes he is seeing a local woman. Joe suffers further prejudice at the hands of a particularly nasty colonel, pulling extra duty and all the less attractive assignments. When he and many others who are married to Japanese are targeted for transfer back to the States, Joe realizes that he will not be able to take Katsumi, who is now pregnant. Ace goes to General Webster and pleads Joes case, asking that he be allowed to remain in Japan. When the General refuses on the grounds that he cannot allow an exception, Ace tells him that he will be in the same situation, since he intends to marry Hana-Ogi. Eileen and her mother are present for the exchange and when Ace apologizes for hurting her, she realizes Ace never loved her the way he loves Hana-Ogi and she leaves to see Nakamura. Joe and Katsumis home is boarded up by the military police and Ace is taken into custody by General Webster, where he is confined to quarters. He is told that he will most likely be sent back to the United States and Hana-Ogi is being sent to Tokyo. When Joe goes AWOL, the MPs seek his help to find Joe through his local connections, so he can be sent back to the U.S. and not be reported missing. Ace finds Joe and Katsumi have snuck back into their home, where he realizes they have committed double suicide rather than be parted. This strengthens Aces resolve to marry Hana-ogi, and he goes to the dance academy to find her, where he is told she has already left for Tokyo. Once the General believes the crisis with Ace is averted, he apologizes for what happened to Joe and Katsumi and tells Ace that laws are now being passed to allow inter-racial marriages in the U.S. Ace leaves Kobe to head to Tokyo where he tracks down Hana-Ogi and pleads with her to become his wife. When a Stars and Stripes military newspaper reporter asks him how he will explain his marriage to the "big brass" as well as to the Japanese, neither of which will be particularly happy, Ace says, "Tell em we said, Sayonara."
Sayonara
1957