Milton Parker (Vincent Price), an eccentric game inventor, dies after losing a video game with his nurse. Parkers greedy and estranged relatives show up at his mansion for the reading of his will. Lawyer Charles Bernstein tells them the winner of a scavenger hunt will inherit the $200 million estate. The potential beneficiaries form five teams and get involved in various misadventures. The five teams consist of: Parkers widowed son-in-law Henry Motley and his four children. The servants: French cook Henri, valet Jenkins, limo driver Jackson and French maid Babbette. Dim-witted taxi driver Marvin Dummitz. Parkers widowed sister Mildred Carruthers, her attorney Stuart Sellsome, and her son Georgie. Nephews Kenny and Jeff Stevens, and Mildreds step-daughter Lisa. Each group is given a list containing clues to acquire 100 items with various point values ranging from 5 to 100 points. The items are to be acquired by any means necessary, with the exception of being purchased. They are to be placed in five different pens on the grounds of the estate. The winner of the scavenger hunt will be the person or team to acquire the most points by 5 p.m. that day. Chaos and carnage ensue, with scavengers returning occasionally to the Parker mansion to deposit items under the supervision of Bernstein and the scorekeeper, Cornfeld. Mildred, Stuart and Georgies adventure has them trying to win a stuffed toy bear at a local carnival, trying to haul a heavy safe out of Stuarts office building, and stealing the false teeth of a Native American. Stuart gets roughed up by a motorcycle gang led by Scum (Meat Loaf) after attempting to steal a stuffed fox tail off one of the gangs motorcycles. Late in the game, the team steals items from the servants and the Stevens/Lisa teams. The servants adventure has them trying to steal a toilet from a fancy hotel, partaking in a robbery at a convenience store to steal a cash register and getting locked in a university laboratory while trying to steal a microscope. Kenny, Jeff and Lisas adventure has them "borrowing" items such as a clown head from a Jack in the Box, recruiting an obese Duane, although they soon discard him and pick up another obese person. A bulletproof vest is borrowed from a self-defense-obsessed lady named Arvilla (Ruth Gordon) and they acquire "laughing gas," steal a uniform from a motorcycle cop, and get stuck in a football teams locker room trying to steal a helmet. Dummittz adventure has him trying unsuccessfully to steal a Rolls Royce front grill and getting run over many times while trying to replicate an insurance scam he witnesses. A bridal shop security guard named Sam catches him attempting to steal a bridal dress. Sam joins the hunt. Together they steal a knights suit of armor from a museum, with Marvin dressing up as a mummy and Sam putting on the armor. Sam, knocked unconscious, is stolen by the Mildred-Stuart-Georgie team. Marvin then teams up with obese friend Merl. Motleys adventure has him attempting to make his kids proud while acquiring a beehive, a life preserver and a parachute. Motley tries to get a medicine ball from a gym and to impress the instructor Lars (Arnold Schwarzenegger), which gets Motley thrown out of a second floor window trying to catch a medicine ball thrown to him. Each team steals an ostrich from the San Diego Zoo, much to the dismay of the zookeeper (Avery Schreiber). It leads to a climactic car chase back to the Parker mansion. The three remaining teams give up their individual chances to win in order to help Kenny, Jeff and Lisa win against the unethical Mildred-Stuart-Georgie team. With seconds to go, Sam, still wearing the armor, crawls out of the Carruthers pen and into the other pen to win the contest for the Stevens brothers and Lisa. The victors decide to share their new wealth with the rest, except for Mildred, Stuart and Georgie.
Scavenger Hunt
1979