David Greene (Brendan Fraser) is a working-class Jewish teenager from Scranton, Pennsylvania, during the 1950s who is given a football scholarship to St. Matthews, an exclusive Massachusetts prep school, for his senior year due to his grades and ability to play football. Upon his arrival, he meets his teammates Rip Van Kelt (Randall Batinkoff), Charlie Dillon (Matt Damon), Jack Connors (Cole Hauser), and his roommate Chris Reece (Chris ODonnell) and learns of the schools cherished honor code system. Soon learning that his new friends are prejudiced against Jews, he suppresses his background. David becomes the team hero and wins the attentions of beautiful débutante Sally Wheeler (Amy Locane), whom Dillon claims is his girlfriend. In the afterglow of a victory over the schools chief rival St. Lukes, Dillon inadvertently discovers that David is Jewish and, out of jealousy, makes this widely known, causing Sally and his teammates to turn against David—soon after, he finds a sign above his bed bearing a swastika and the words "Go home Jew". David is constantly harassed by his classmates, led by Richard "McGoo" Collins (Anthony Rapp) and his bodyguard-like roommate Chesty Smith (Ben Affleck); only Reece and another unnamed student remain loyal to Greene. Overwhelmed by pressure from his prestigious family, Dillon uses a crib sheet to cheat in an important history exam. David and Van Kelt each spot him doing so, but remain silent. Dillon gets pushed while leaving class and drops the sheet on the floor after the test; when the teacher, Mr. Geirasch (Michael Higgins), discovers it, he informs the class that he will fail all of them if the cheater does not confess. He leaves the task of finding the cheater up to the students, led by Van Kelt, the head prefect. When David confronts Dillon and threatens to turn him in if he does not confess, Dillon unsuccessfully attempts to buy Davids silence with money. Just when David is about to reveal Dillon to the other students, Dillon accuses David. Both agree to leave and to trust the rest of the class to decide who is telling the truth. The majority of the class blame David out of anti-Semitic prejudice, while Reece, the unnamed student, and Connors, going against his own self-professed anti-Semitism, argue that it is unlike David to cheat or be dishonest. Despite this, the class votes that David is guilty, prompting Van Kelt to tell him to report to the elitist headmaster, Dr. Bartram (Peter Donat), to confess to cheating. David goes to Bartrams office and says that he was the cheater, but unbeknownst to him, Van Kelt has already told the headmaster that the real offender was Dillon. Bartram tells David and Van Kelt that they should have reported the offense, but absolves them; Dillon, meanwhile, is expelled. As David leaves the headmasters office, he sees Dillon leaving the school. Dillon says that he will be accepted to Harvard anyway and that years later everybody will have forgotten about his cheating at school, while David will still just be a Jew. "And youll still be a prick," David replies, and walks away.
School Ties
1992