The film opens with a news broadcast about a teenager named Jason Jackson (Bobbe J. Thompson) being shot outside of the Monte Vista High School dance lock-in. Jason tells the story from the beginning, starting with him trying to get into the most popular dance clique in school, The Ranger$ (Langston Higgins, Julian Goins, and Dashawn Blanks). They say he has to pass the initiation of getting a pair of panties from one of the Sweet Gyrls by midnight. Jason then decides that he is going to attempt to get a pair of panties from his longtime crush Anastacia (Kristinia DeBarge during the schools lock-in. Meanwhile, Day Day, one of the Ranger$ and Jasons older cousin owes Anastacias eldest brother Junior $2,000 by midnight due to Day Days father Darren (Katt Williams) telling Junior that Day Day would have his money after losing to him in a game of dominoes. In his English class, Jason gives Anastacia a poem he wrote about her after she forgets to do the homework assignment expect the teacher makes her read it in front of the class which everyone including Anastacia finds to be very great. After school is over, Anastacia gives Jason her number so they can write a song together sometime. Another subplot of the film follows two police officers Officer Peniss and Lagney, who are chasing down the New Boyz who are on their way to the lock-in but get caught with weed brownies and "grape juice", which Officer Lagney consumes. At the school dance lock-in, Jason, Anastacia, the Ranger$, and Sweet Gyrls play "7 Minutes in Heaven", but when it is Jason and Anastacias turn, she tells him that she already knows his plan and they decide to just stay friends. They later compete in a talent show to win $2,000 but when it comes to the Ranger$ performance, Jason finally beats his fear and raps to help them win the money. However, the Sweet Gyrls end up winning the prize money. At midnight, Jason and the Ranger$ meet the Eses in the parking lot and are about to be killed until the wannabe gangsters (Kevin Hart and Lil Duval) start a drive-by shooting. Jason saves Anastacia, but is shot in the process. Jason is sent to the hospital and Anastacia goes with him, becomes his girlfriend, and gives Flaco the $2,000 prize money. The film ends with Jasons mother, Mamma Tawanna (Luenell) coming into the parking lot with a gun, trying to figure out who shot Jason and breaks the fourth wall by showing Nick, the producers, and the crew then her shouting out at the audience.
School Dance (film)
2014