Cross (Burt Lancaster) is an experienced but retiring Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) agent and assassin who is training free-lance hit-man Jean Laurier (Alain Delon) (alias "Scorpio") to replace him. Cross is teaching him as much about protecting himself from his patrons and never trusting anyone as how to get away clean. The CIA tells Scorpio to kill Cross for suspected treason and collaboration with the Russians. Scorpio is threatened with jail on a false narcotics charge if he doesnt cooperate. Scorpio follows Cross trail across Europe. Cross intends to bring his wife out from the country and get out from the spy-business. Despite blown covers, and many failed CIA attempts to ambush him, Cross manages to stay one step ahead of his pursuers. In a failed break-in at Crosss home, CIA agents shoot and kill his wife Sarah (Joanne Linville), causing Cross to go back to America. He rejects protection from his Russian ally Zharkov, whose agency wants to know secrets he knows as a senior field agent. Zharkov helps Cross to cover his tracks and reach America. Cross successfully evades capture/detection by the CIA and manages to kill the agency director responsible for his wifes death. CIA wants Cross head on a platter and contracts Scorpio again for the same. The new CIA director and Scorpios handler, Filchock shows him evidence that Cross might have collaborated in the past with other foreign agents and was able to make a hefty sum from it. Scorpio comes to know his girlfriend Susan is working with Cross. Enraged by this perfidy, Scorpio corners Cross and Susan and kills his girlfriend instantly without remorse. However, Cross says she was a Czech courier and he is just a middleman between their agency for staying in the game and didnt betray Scorpio. Scorpio finishes off Cross after hearing his last words of wisdom. Moments later, Scorpio is also assassinated, as Cross said he would be, when "They" were done with him. The viewer is left to speculate on who is behind Scorpios death.
Scorpio (film)
1973