In Toronto, 23-year-old Scott Pilgrim is a bassist in Sex Bob-Omb, a floundering garage band. To the disapproval of his friends, he is dating Knives Chau, a 17-year-old high-school student. Scott meets an American Amazon delivery girl, Ramona Flowers, having first seen her in a dream, and loses interest in Knives, but doesnt break up with her before pursuing Ramona. When Sex Bob-Omb plays in a battle of the bands sponsored by record executive G-Man Graves, Scott is attacked by Ramonas ex-boyfriend Matthew Patel. Scott defeats Patel and learns that, in order to date Ramona, he must defeat the remaining six evil exes. Scott breaks up with Knives, who blames Ramona and swears to win him back. Scott defeats Ramonas second evil ex, Hollywood actor and skateboarder Lucas Lee, by tricking him into performing a dangerous stunt. He defeats her third ex, superpowered vegan Todd Ingram, who is dating Scotts ex-girlfriend, Envy Adams, by tricking him into drinking dairy. He defeats her fourth ex, Roxy Richter (with Ramonas help, as he cant hit a girl), by prodding the spot behind her knee (Ramona tells him this is Roxys weak point). Scott becomes upset with Ramonas dating history, and Ramona breaks up with him. At the next battle of the bands, Sex Bob-Omb defeats Ramonas fifth and sixth evil exes, twins Kyle and Ken Katayanagi, earning Scott an extra life. Ramona gets back with her seventh evil ex, Gideon, AKA G-Man Graves. Sex Bob-Omb accepts Gideons record deal, except for Scott, who leaves the band in protest. Gideon invites Scott to his venue, the Chaos Theater, where Sex Bob-Omb is playing. Resolving to win Ramona back, Scott challenges Gideon to a fight for her affections, earning the "Power of Love" sword. Knives interrupts the battle, attacking Ramona, and Scott is forced to reveal that he cheated on both of them. Gideon kills Scott and Ramona visits him in limbo to reveal that Gideon has implanted her with a mind control device. Scott uses his 1-up and re-enters the Chaos Theater. He makes peace with his friends and challenges Gideon again, this time for himself. He gains the "Power of Self-Respect" sword and disarms Gideon. He apologizes to Ramona and Knives for cheating on them, and Scott and Knives join forces to defeat Gideon. Free from Gideons control, Ramona prepares to leave. Knives accepts that her relationship with Scott is over and, at her encouragement, he leaves with Ramona.
Scott Pilgrim vs. the World
2010