Daffy is a guard at a scrap pile, encouraging Americans to "Get the tin out", "Get the iron out" and especially "Get the lead out". Singing Were in to Win, Daffy goes over the various things Americans can send to help with the war effort. However, this doesnt go down well with Adolf Hitler, who reads about Daffys scrap pile helping to beat Benito Mussolini, and responds to this by giving his men the following order: "Destroy that scrap pile!" With the word out, a Nazi submarine fires a torpedo to the scrap pile — which has a billy goat inside, which immediately starts eating everything in sight. Daffy, hearing the noise, tries to find out whats making the noise. After temporarily pointing a rifle at a reflection of himself (thinking that he cornered someone else), Daffy finds the goat hiccuping with the garbage inside him and amiably offers him a glass of Alka-Seltzer. However, when Daffy sees the swastika that the goat (whom he derides as a "tin termite") is wearing on his collar, he starts messing with the goat. Temporarily getting the better of the goat, Daffy is almost undone when he tries to whack the goat with a mallet - but the mallet gets stuck in the goats horns and the goat knocks Daffy around. Daffy is ready to call it quits (saying "What Id give for a can of spinach now", a direct reference to Popeye whose theatrical cartoons are now owned by WB, but at the time were a major competitor to them), but is encouraged by the ghosts of his ancestors — ducks who landed on Plymouth Rock, who encamped at Valley Forge with George Washington, who explored with Daniel Boone, who sailed with John Paul Jones, and who stood in for Abraham Lincoln. Daffys spirits back up when he realizes, "Americans dont give up, and Im an American... duck!", and then he turns into "Super American" in a reference to Superman (whose owner, DC Comics, is now a WB subsidiary itself). Daffy flies after the goat, knocking him around. The goat makes a run for the submarine, but Daffy repels all bullets shot at him and starts yanking on the periscope. Just then, the scene changes to Daffy yanking on a fire hose and getting hosed down. Daffy wakes up, thinking it was all just a dream — until he looks up at the Nazi submarine sitting on top of the scrap pile, where the Nazis tell Daffy, "Next time you dream, include us out!"
Scrap Happy Daffy
1943