The opening features everyone enjoys a day in the park as the calypso version of the Sesame Street Theme plays. Big Bird, Prairie Dawn and Telly watch as everyone expresses themselves with music, dance and other talents. Big Bird is reminded of a quote his Granny Bird told him, "The whole world is a stage." Prairie gets the idea to put on a show. Prairie assures them that their search will be an adventure! They split up their duties so then Telly and Prairie will look for dancers and musicians, while Big Bird looks for "la-la"-ers. so Telly and Prairie come across Jamal, Angela, Celina, Carlo, the kids and other Muppets singing an a capella version of "Do-Op Hop." Theyve found their singers for the show! Big Bird has formed a "LA LA LINE" to audition la-la-ers. After a failed audition by Humphrey and Natasha, the Count steps up, not wanting to la-la, but to count those in line. Big Bird thinks his day will drive him batty, cuing the next song. Meanwhile, Big Birds next audition is with a duck. The duck happens to belong to The Amazing Mumford, who knows a spell that will make everyone la-la. Although, when he tries it, the spell instead makes them quack. So Telly and Prairie report to Big Bird that theyve found some singers. Big Bird responds hes having some trouble finding his la-la-ers. Telly wonders if its as hard as finding a letter O. Then Big Bird is glad Telly found his letter and wonders when hell have the same success in finding la-la-ers. So Mumford reutrns as he tries his trick again, but makes people "baa-baa" like sheep. Telly and Prairie now find a jam session going on and think theyre the musicians they need. Elmo, playing the drum, comments that playing it is almost as easy as saying his name. In the intermission Elmo calls for a break and teases some of the highlights from the next half of the special. as the show continues, Telly and Prairie ask Big Bird if hed like to help them find dancers, but hes busy with his line. The next auditions dont do well, and Big Bird remarks hell go bananas. Joey and Davey Monkey pop up at the mention of "bananas." Prairie and Telly run into Jason and Savion while looking for dancers. Savion tells them that there are dancers everywhere in the park. Prairie comments at all the people dancing. "And pigs too," Telly adds, pointing nearby. then Big Bird shows Telly and Prairie Dawn the la-la-ers hes chosen - The Martians. He tells them theyre going to become stars, causing the Martians to vanish for the stars in space. also The next la-la-ers in Big Birds line is a man who plays accordion, while a chicken clucks. Big Bird begins to lose hope., as for Big Birds line result it is now empty. Mumford tries his trick again, but no ones around to be entranced by it. Big Bird slinks over to a bench and begins singing "Sing" to himself. as for his answer, Ladysmith Black Mambazo immediately answers with a chorus of la-las, exactly what Big Birds been searching for. Mumford tries his trick again, then finally he summoning all of Big Birds friends to sing with him.
Sesame Street Jam: A Musical Celebration
1994