Gordon Fleming is the owner of a small asbestos removal company. The stresses of work and being a new father are causing problems between him and his wife, Wendy. He is in a desperate financial bind and makes a bid to remove asbestos from the Danvers State Hospital, closed fifteen years ago, within one week. His team consists of Mike, a law school dropout who is knowledgeable about the asylums history; Phil, who is filled with bitterness after losing his girlfriend and finds solace in smoking marijuana; Hank, who lost his girlfriend as well; and Jeff, Gordons nephew, who suffers from severe nyctophobia. During the survey of the job site, Gordon hears a disembodied voice in a hallway that greets him by name, and later states "You can hear me". As work begins inside the asylum, Mike finds a box containing nine taped sessions with a patient named Mary Hobbes, who suffered from dissociative identity disorder. The purpose of the sessions, which Mike becomes increasingly engrossed in, is to unveil what happened on Christmas night in Lowell, her hometown, twenty-two years before. One of her personalities, "the Princess", is childlike and innocent, knowing only the Christmas presents - a china doll for Mary and a knife for her brother, Peter - and that they played hide-and-seek after their parents went to bed. Another personality, "Billy", is both childlike and protective. He lives "in the eyes" and saw what happened, but refuses to let Mary find out. The doctor repeatedly asks about Simon, who he thinks is a third personality. "The Princess" knows nothing about Simon, while "Billy" fears him. In the tunnels beneath the property, Hank finds a cache of antique Morgan dollar coins and other silver items, scattered from the crematory nearby. He returns that night to steal the artifacts and finds an orbitoclast. He hears odd sounds in the tunnels and discovers an empty peanut butter jar. He hears someone behind him and tries to escape the tunnels, but he is attacked by an unseen assailant. The next morning, the other four learn that Hank abruptly broke up with his girlfriend and left town; the four speculate about the possibility that Hank finally won some money in a lottery. Gordon, who frequently calls his wife and saw Phil speaking to two unknown men during one telephone call, suspects that Phil had something to do with Hanks disappearance, causing tension between the group. At one point Gordon goes outside the building into the old garden, where several tombstones from patients who died during their stay at the asylum are located. As Gordon sits on a part of a tree trunk, he tries to call his wife again but is cut short by Jeff, who expresses gratitude for the job opportunity. Gordon later opens up to Phil and admits that he hit Wendy after she accidentally spilled a pot of boiling water on his leg; he has been trying to apologize over the phone ever since. His leg is badly blistering and hurting, but he continues the work. Phil calls in another worker, Craig McManus, to assist with the job that is now behind schedule after Hanks disappearance. Phil tells Mike that he thinks Gordon has become a liability and reveals to Mike that Gordon admitted to slapping his wife. Jeff finds Hank alive, but strangely unresponsive to Jeffs questions about where he has been. Jeff runs to tell the others, but Hank disappears again when the group returns. They split up to find Hank, but instead of looking, Mike quickly returns to the session tapes which he now feels compelled to finish listening to. In the taped recordings "Billy" refuses to awaken Simon, admitting to the doctor only that Simon was behind whatever happened that night. During the search, Phil finds Hank in one of the tunnels, half-naked, wearing sunglasses and muttering to himself. The power goes out at that point, trapping Jeff in a pitch-black tunnel and also stopping the ninth session tape short. Mike restores the power and the ninth session continues with Simon, the same voice Gordon has been hearing since the job began, taking over. Simon reveals that Peter scared Mary while they were playing and she fell on her doll, breaking it and badly cutting up her chest. Simon explains that at that moment he sensed Mary was weak and helpless so he "introduced" himself to her. Simon then told Mary to cut up Peter and her parents with the new knife, and she willingly complied with his instruction. The doctor asks Simon why, and Simon tells him "Because Mary let me, Doc." Simon then repeats "They always do," implying that he is not a mere personality, but rather an external entity that has influenced many people through time. As the recording continues, Phil finds Gordon in Marys former hospital room, staring at photos of his new daughters baptism stuck to the wall. A shaken Jeff flees to the van, where he also is attacked by an unseen assailant. The next day, Craig arrives at the asylum. Gordon finds Hank, with the orbitoclast protruding from his eye, wrapped in plastic in one of the larger rooms. Phil also appears and tells Gordon to "wake up" when Gordon accuses Phil of being the one who attacked the others. As Craig finds them, it is shown that Phils presence was in actually only Gordons mind. Possessed by Simons influence, Gordon enters a dissociative state and kills Craig with the orbitoclast after removing it from Hanks eye socket. It is revealed that Gordon, in the disassociated state, attacked Hank that night in the tunnels. Gordon is also shown killing Phil after being found in Marys room before finding and killing Mike and Jeff. It is also revealed that Gordon did not just slap his wife, but killed her, the family dog, and their baby after the pot of boiling water was spilled on him. Gordon was encouraged by the laughing voice of Simon saying "Do it, Gordon," the same as the way he had done with Mary decades earlier. Gordon finally breaks down and realizes he has killed his family and all his friends. He uses his cell phone, which is broken, to apologize to an already dead Wendy. The film ends with a doctor asking, "And where do you live, Simon?" with Simon answering, "I live in the weak and the wounded, Doc," implying that those who are vulnerable can be compelled by his influence to commit acts of evil.
Session 9
2001