When the Donovan family moves from California to Connecticut, 17-year-old Sydney (Tia Mowry) finds it is not easy being in a new town away from her old friends. However, she soon develops a crush on a classmate while trying to compete with his older sister, Ashley (Maia Campbell), who dislikes her and criticizes her anyway she can. Her 12-year-old genius brother Willie (Tahj Mowry) is happy as long as he can tinker in his lab with his increasingly complex experiments. When another experiment goes wrong, their father bans him from making more experiments in his lab until he learns responsibility in them. Willie is convinced he can defeat the aging process, and while devising an experimental anti-aging formula, he accidentally spills some on a bar of soap. When his grandmother Cat (Hope Clarke) mistakenly uses the tainted soap, shes transformed into a 17-year-old (Tamera Mowry). Her ex-husband Gene (Robert Hooks) follows suit, and is also returned to his teenaged self (Mark Taylor). Cat and Gene are having a fine time reliving their youth and enjoying the thrill of teenage romance, but theres a fly in the ointment. Willie learns his formula could have deadly side effects, and now he must discover an antidote to return his grandparents to their older but healthy bodies. Through their experience as teenagers again Gene and Cat realize they are still in love with each other but Cat is reluctant to believe Gene’s feelings are genuine as she is still heartbroken that he chose to leave her for a job in Australia 20 years ago, the reason for their divorce. In Sydneys room, she and Cat finally have a long and heartfelt talk. Sydney admits shes homesick for California and her old friends. She hates Connecticut and the bullying she is subjected to by Ashley and her friends because Ashleys brother is interested in her. During that time, Cat admits her earlier experience with Ashley. However unlike Sydney, she was able to stand up to her and earn Ashleys begrudging respect. Meanwhile, Gene who has had time to reflect on his life choices realizes his mistake of leaving his family and bids farewell to his life as a teenager and the friends he has made, and goes to the dance with Ashley in hopes of reconciling with Cat. Meanwhile at the dance, Sydney and Cat arrive and find Gene with Ashley. Gene and Cat share a dance where they reconcile, before Cat passes out do to the sideffects of the soap. Willie arrives with the antidote as Gene carries Cat to the school’s pool. Ashley, furious that Gene ditched her for Cat, she cuts them off before they can save her. Sydney finally stands up to Ashley and decks her for insulting Cat. As she and Willie leave to save their grandparents, everyone applauds Sydney giving Ashley what she deserved. Willie tosses the antidote in the pool and Gene and Cat jump in. At the end of the movie, Gene asks Cat to marry him again after their crazy experience. Cat says yes, but then the happiness is interrupted by Sydney and Willies father announcing he is going take a shower with the soap. Of course, Sydney and Willie now have to stop their father from using the soap.
Seventeen Again
2000