Ex-convict Gary "Gal" Dove is happily retired in a villa in Spain with his beloved ex-porn actress wife DeeDee, best friend Aitch and Aitchs wife Jackie. A boulder falls from a hill, nearly hits him, and lands in his swimming pool, damaging its double-heart insignia. After a hunt in which he and his friends fail to bag a rabbit, Gal has a dream of a man with a terrifying rabbits head that appears like a Devils head pointing a gun at him. A violent old criminal associate, Don Logan, arrives at Gales villa, intent on enlisting Gal for a bank robbery in London. Crime lord Teddy Bass learned about the vault from Harry, the banks chairman, whom he met at an orgy. Gal politely declines, but Logan grows increasingly aggressive. After Gal suggests Logans real reason for visiting is his infatuation with Jackie, Logan grows furious and demands to be taken to the airport. On the plane, Logan refuses to extinguish his cigarette prior to take-off, is aggressive to staff, and is ejected. He tells the investigator the cabin crew sexually harassed him and is released. A seething Logan returns to Gals home screaming obscenities, threatens to kill Gal then smashes a beer bottle against Gals head. The scene cuts with DeeDee aiming a shotgun at Don who merely looks at her with hate. In London, Bass asks Gal where Logan is. Gal claims Logan called him from Heathrow Airport. In the morning, Gal has another vision of the demonic rabbit. As Gal eats breakfast, Bass appears and asks again where Logan is. Gal continues to feign ignorance to which Bass smiles and laughs. Shifting back to the villa prior to Gals trip to London, Logan returns to the villa screaming obscenities and attacks Gal with a bottle. An employee of Gals threatens Logan with a gun, but Logan disarms him. DeeDee shoots Logan with a shotgun and she, Jackie and Gal beat him. When Logan tells Aitch he had sex with Jackie, Aitch hits him with a television set. In London, Bass asks Gal where Logan is. Gal claims Logan called him from Heathrow Airport. In the morning, Gal has another vision of the demonic rabbit. As Gal eats breakfast, Bass arrives and asks again where Logan is. Gal continues to feign ignorance. During the heist, Basss crew use diving gear to drill into Harrys vault from a pool in a neighbouring bath house. The pool water floods the vault and shorts its security system. As the crew empties the vaults safe deposit boxes, Gal secretly pockets a pair of ruby earrings encrusted with diamonds.  After the job, Bass insists on driving Gal to the airport. He stops at Harrys home where he kills Harry and questions Gal again about Logan. Gal merely responds, "Im not into this any more." Back in the car, Bass offers, "If I cared, Gal. If I fucking cared. If I gave a solitary fuck about Don Logan!" then "Spain, eh? I must drop in sometime. Pay my respects." He pays Gal £10 for his services, giving Gal a £20 note and demanding change, then tells him to get out of the car and drives away. Gal returns to his friends and family in Spain, where DeeDee wears the earrings. Gal hears Dons voice tell him that he knew Gal would do the job; Gal responds that Don is dead now and can shut up. The demonic rabbit opens a coffin beneath the swimming pool, revealing Don, who exhales smoke with contempt.
Sexy Beast
2000