The film is a lighthearted story of four teenage girlfriends of various temperaments who escape from their parents for a few days in 1963 for an adventure in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina where the big spring festival promises a dance contest, beer blasts and lots of cute boys. Carson is engaged to a rich but square young man, Melaina fancies herself as a Hollywood sexpot, Luanne wears glasses and is a prim and proper senators daughter, and Pudge has recently lost weight but has always been called "Pudge" and suffers from low self-esteem. The trip is spurred by the upcoming marriage of Carson to Harley, the son of a prominent tobacco farmer. On the main strip in Myrtle Beach, their paths cross Buzz and Chip, locals who are cruising around looking for girls. They stay at the second home of Luannes parents, but are forbidden to sit on the furniture, drink the liquor or make phone calls, as the trip is a secret. The girls decide to go to a local club so they can shag, but Carson has sworn she wont dance as she feels guilty being in Myrtle Beach instead of going to Fort Sumter, SC as her fiance believes. Once at the club, Melaina flirts with the local men, dancing with one she had just told Pudge to reject. She has a run in with local girl Nadines best friend Suette while doing the limbo and ends up flirting with Big Bob, who is Nadines dance partner. In the bathroom, the local girls are overheard by Melaina talking about a local beauty pageant and she tells them they wont win because she is entering. While Carson and Pudge sit with Buzz and Chip, who have gravitated to their table, Luanne is dragged to the dance floor by a boy that refuses to let her go. Chip shows an interest in Pudge but says he cant dance, and when Buzz asks Carson to dance, she tells him to dance with Pudge instead. The two girls take a ride with Buzz and Carson to a local car-hop eatery, at the same time Melaina takes a ride with Big Bob. Meanwhile, Luanne finally escapes her dance partner and runs outside to see the girls take off in separate cars. Luanne ends up following Melaina and Big Bob, who are also being followed by Nadine and Suette. Bob takes her to a local make-out place, where Nadine and Suette attack his car with shaving cream and drag Melaina out of the car, covering her in the cream, facial tissue and pouring liquor down her throat. Luanne finds Melaina lying on the ground reciting Bible verses and takes her back to the house to clean up, where Melaina tells her shes entering the beauty contest. At the car-hop, Buzz begins to flirt with Carson, not caring that shes engaged and she finds herself drawn to him. Pudge asks Chip to let her teach him the shag and he grudgingly relents. Once the boys take Carson and Pudge home, Carson calls Harley and tells him shes actually in Myrtle Beach, but doesnt tell him she went out with another man. Pudge is confronted by Chip in the morning while still in her nightgown and rollers, but she is pleased he has come by to see her and she begins their dance lessons. Buzz wakes Carson up by dangling a fly fishing lure in her face and asks her to go fishing with him. Once she tells him nothing will ever happen between them, he agrees and says they should just be friends. Melaina begins practicing her dance routine for the beauty pageant and Luanne walks in on her and shames her into giving a speech from Gone with the Wind instead. Carson and Buzz are fishing and they begin to get closer as the day wears on, while Chip and Pudge ask each other questions relating to sex and relationships. Buzz tells Carson that he doesnt believe she will marry Harley and forces her to confront her beliefs and rules shes set for herself. The girls later come together to see Melaina enter the contest but instead of using her dance routine and wearing a bikini, she has let Luanne influence her into being a more modest contestant, and she loses to Suette, who wins doing a dance routine in a bikini. Harley arrives during the contest and Carson hides from him, while Luanne seeks him out. Melaina gets the idea to have Luanne use her daddys name as a Senator to invite Jimmy Valentine to the house for a small party, which turns into a rowdy affair. Melaina spends the evening dancing with and impressing Jimmy, while Carson spends more time with Buzz, Luanne and Harley get close, and Pudge and Chip get to know each other more. Carson and Buzz go to Luannes fathers yacht and even though he admits he doesnt believe in marriage, they end up sleeping together. Luanne and Harley also realize they have feelings for each other and are more suited than Harley and Carson were. Chip makes a mistake in saying his feelings for Pudge are friendship and she rejects him. Melaina tries to get Jimmy to pay attention to her once the sun has come up, but hes still drunk and his manager has come to the house to take him away. Melaina realizes the agent is the real celebrity maker and decides to set her sights on him instead. Luanne and Harley wake and are told by the maid that her father and mother are coming to town to judge the shag contest and she sends Chip to pick them up and take them to the pavilion while they repair the damage done to the home. Pudge takes Melaina to the pavilion to meet up with Jimmys agent and there she sees Chip and realizes that he really does care about her. Luanne and Harley, along with Buzz and Carson, who snuck back from the yacht, follow Pudge and Melaina to the pavilion in time to see Pudge and Chip enter the contest. Once they all see Luannes parents, she says she will lie to them about the weekend and Carson berates her for not telling the truth. Luanne says shell tell them the truth if Carson tells Harley the truth. Carson tells Harley she cant marry him because shes in love with Buzz and Luanne spills the beans about the two having sex in the yacht. Harley attempts to hit Buzz, who ducks his blow and hits a mirror instead, and Luanne comforts him. Chip and Pudge win the contest and agree to stay in touch while Chip attends Annapolis, Melaina impresses the agent who agrees to take her on as a client, Luanne ends up with Harley and Carson realizes she doesnt need to be married to be happy.
Shag (1989 film)
1989