Shane (Alan Ladd), a skilled, laconic gunfighter with a mysterious past, rides into an isolated valley in the sparsely settled Wyoming Territory, some time after the Civil War. At dinner with local rancher Joe Starrett (Van Heflin) and his wife Marian (Jean Arthur), he learns that a war of intimidation is being waged on the valleys settlers. Though they have claimed their land legally under the Homestead Acts, a ruthless cattle baron, Rufus Ryker (Emile Meyer), has hired rogues and henchmen to harass them and drive them out of the valley. Starrett offers Shane a job, and he accepts. At the towns general store, Shane and other homesteaders are loading up supplies. Shane enters the saloon adjacent to the store, where Rykers men are drinking, and orders a soda pop for the Starretts son, Joey (Brandon deWilde). Chris Calloway (Ben Johnson), one of Rykers men, throws a shot of whiskey on Shanes shirt. "Smell like a man!" he taunts. Shane doesnt rise to the bait, and leaves to the taunts of Rykers men. On the next trip to town, Shane returns the empty soda bottle to the saloon, where Calloway again taunts him. Shane orders two shots of whiskey, pours one on Calloways shirt and throws the other in his face, then knocks him to the ground. A brawl ensues; Shane prevails, with Starretts help. Ryker declares that the next time they meet, "the air will be filled with gun smoke." Joey is drawn to Shane, and to his gun. Shane shows him how to wear a holster and demonstrates his shooting skills, but Marian interrupts the lesson. Guns, she says, are not going to be a part of her sons life. Shane counters that a gun is a tool, no better nor worse than an axe or a shovel, and as good or bad as the man using it. Marian retorts that the valley would be better off without any guns—including Shanes. Jack Wilson (Jack Palance), an unscrupulous gunfighter working for Ryker, deliberately provokes Frank "Stonewall" Torrey (Elisha Cook Jr.), a hot-tempered ex-Confederate homesteader. When the inexperienced farmer goes for his gun, Wilson shoots him dead. At Torreys funeral, there is talk among the settlers of giving in to Ryker and moving on; but after battling a fire set by Rykers men, they find new determination and resolve to continue the fight. Ryker invites Starrett to a meeting at the saloon to negotiate a settlement—and then orders Wilson to kill him when he arrives. Calloway, unable to tolerate Rykers treachery any longer, warns Shane of the double-cross. Starrett says no matter, he will shoot it out with Wilson, and asks Shane to look after Marian and Joey if he dies. Shane, aware that Starrett is no match for Wilson in a gunfight, says he must go instead. Starrett is adamant, and Shane is forced to knock him unconscious. A distraught Marian asks Shane why he is doing this. For her, he replies, and her husband and son, and all the other decent people who want a chance to live in peace in the valley. As Shane rides to town, Joey follows him on foot. At the saloon, he beats Wilson to a draw, then shoots Ryker as he draws a hidden gun. Shane tells Joey to tell his mother that the settlers have won. His left arm hangs limply at his side as he mounts his horse. Shane rides out of town, ignoring Joeys desperate cries of "Shane! Come back!"
Shane (film)
1953