In 1887, Chon Lin (Fann Wong) tells her father (Kim Chan), the Keeper of the Imperial Seal of China in the Forbidden City, that her brother, Chon Wang (Jackie Chan), is doing well as a sheriff in Carson City, Nevada, but her father replies that her brother is dead to him. At that moment, Lord Nelson Rathbone (Aidan Gillen), leads a band of Boxers into the city, who attack the Keeper. Despite Lins efforts, her father is killed and the seal is stolen. With his last breath, he gives Lin a box and tells her to give it to her brother. Meanwhile, Chon Wang is doing well as sheriff, having captured an impressive array of fugitives. His deputy is relaxing with a book called "Roy OBannon Vs. The Mummy", a highly fictionalized account of the events of the first film that now portrays Wangs "Shanghai Kid" as a cowardly sidekick, which dismays Wang. Wang receives a parcel containing a puzzle box and a letter from Lin telling him that their father is dead and that she has tracked the murderer to London. Chon Wang travels to New York City to find his old partner Roy OBannon (Owen Wilson). and uses his share of the first films gold to buy a ticket to London. Chon finds that Roy has left his brief stint in law enforcement, broken off his romance with Falling Leaves, spent most of the gold investing in the Zeppelin , and is now a hotel waiter and part-time gigolo. (Later Roy reveals that he has lost all of the gold on publishing his novels). After they attempt prostitution to pay for a trip to the United Kingdom, the Mayor of New York arrives in search of his daughters who are Roys latest clients. The pair escape and ship themselves to London in a crate. In London, Wang and OBannon have their duster and watch stolen, respectively, by a number of street thugs including a young boy named Charlie (Aaron Johnson). After an extensive battle to reclaim these items, they are arrested by the police. In Scotland Yard, Inspector Artie Doyle (Thomas Fisher) thanks the two for defeating the Fleet Street gang. He tells Wang that Lin is also in Scotland Yard, having attempted to kill Lord Rathbone. Meanwhile, Rathbone finds he is not alone in his carriage as Wu Chow (Donnie Yen) has sneaked his way on; Rathbone slips him the dagger that killed the Keeper of the Imperial Seal. Sometime later, Roy and Wang wander through London and see Buckingham Palace. They encounter Charlie, who lets them into the empty house of a nobleman and finds an invitation to a gala at the castle. Roy and Wang arrive that night at the gala, wearing disguises: Roy masquerades as Major General "Sherlock Holmes" (a name he derives from the face of a clock), and Wang is the "Maharaja of Nevada". Wang and Roy follow Lord Rathbone to a private library, but Rathbone slips quickly through a secret passage before they can reach him. As Roy occupies himself with a copy of the Kama Sutra, Wang looks for the secret passage and discovers it in the fireplace. Wang enters the secret room, which contains treasures from throughout the British Empire and asks for Roys help which Roy repeatedly ignores, as he thinks it is something minor, and continues to read his book. Rathbones guards then attack Roy, but he is rescued by Lin, who has escaped from Scotland Yard. The three see Rathbone hand the Imperial Seal to Wu Chow, the illegitimate brother of the Emperor of China, which is then stolen by Charlie who leaves his hat. Rathbone spots the three, and after a brief battle, he sets the barn on fire and escapes, and then the three also manage to escape. They find Artie drunk after being sacked at his home. Artie deduces using from the hat that Charlie is in Madame Tussauds. They arrive just in time to save Charlie from the boxers at the expense of losing the seal again and being captured outside by police. Taken away in a police buggy, they are rescued in turn by Charlie, who later reveals his full name to be Charlie Chaplin. After an interlude in a brothel where Chou tries to convince Lin that Roy is unsuitable. Roy has overheard this and is upset with Chou, but forgives him when Roy arranges a pillow fight with the ladies of the night. When Lin sees this she runs into the night followed by Roy and Lin. They are all captured by Rathbone, who tells them that he is going to kill the royal family and frame "Loony" Lin. They escape and manage to stop Wang from killing the royal family. Just as Wang is about to kill Chou, Lin blasts and kills him with a rocket. The three they follow Rathbone to the top of Big Ben. He throws Roy out of the tower, but he survives when he grabs a hand of the clock. Thinking Roy is dead, Chon fights with Rathbone, and the pair are both thrown outside. Roy saves Wang as Rathbone falls to his death. Roy and Wang are knighted, as is Artie, whose full name is now revealed to be Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Artie decides to become a writer, of detective stories revolving around his deductive reasoning technique, and asks Roy if he can use the "Sherlock Holmes" name. Roy proposes that he and Wang go to Hollywood to get in on the ground floor with motion pictures. They roll off in a buggy, with Charlie (wearing a fake moustache) stowed away. Wang also manages to open the box his father sent him, finding a message inside reminding him of the importance of family.
Shanghai Knights
2003