Circa 1900, in Ireland, two carnies, Angus Shaw (Rufus Sewell) and his wife Lillian "Lily" (Carla Gugino), encounter a Mr. Woolrich (Aubrey Morris) during one of their shows. Having heard that a mermaid will be on show, he is relieved to find that it is just Lily impersonating one. They offer him a ride home, where he shows them documented sightings of mer-people throughout history including a map of their home, the Forbidden Islands, and that they can take human form during the full moon. He then reveals to them an actual mermaid (Rya Kihlstedt), whom he captured back in his admiral days, and explains how she killed his wife. Naturally Angus and Lily are astonished. Sensing Anguss desire to use her as a freak show attraction, Woolrich warns him against it. Unbeknownst to Lily, Angus and his colleagues Bailey (Reno Wilson) and Gifford (Mark Aiken) break into Woolrichs home during the night but are caught. During the scuffle, Woolrich suddenly dies of a heart attack, allowing Angus and the crew to abduct the mermaid and smuggle her aboard their ship. Lily is less than thrilled about this idea, despite her husbands attempts to persuade her its for the best. However, during the voyage to America, the mermaid seems to take a liking to her. One night, Lily is cornered by a drunken Miles, one of the crew members, who reveals that they have bad history together. When she returns to her cabin, he goes missing and the mermaid is found somehow tangled in the crews nets. As she is returned to her tank, she spits out Miles ring, prompting Lily to realise that she ate him as a favour to her. She attempts to explain this to Angus but he dismisses it, but he admits that they did abduct her rather than buy her from Woolrich and that they didnt mean to kill him. Lily later seemingly becomes possessed by the mermaid, who tries to kill Angus while they are making love; luckily, Lily is able to come to her senses. Worried that the mermaid will do further harm, Lily attempts to free her, but she is caught by Bailey, who then is devoured by the mermaid. Lily tries to explain herself but Angus accuses her of being unstable and locks her in their room. After he leaves, Lily realises she is pregnant, much to her horror, as she is supposed to be barren. She then reads the late Mrs. Woolrichs diary, which confirms her worry that the mermaid somehow impregnated her. She manages to escape and encounters the terrified mermaid, now in her human form due to the full moon. Lily comforts her, but they are caught by the crew. Lily tries to tell them to leave her alone but she passes out. When she comes to, she tries to explain to a concerned Angus that she is pregnant, but he dismisses this as a symptom of her sickness. Meanwhile, the crew angrily harass the mermaid before Angus intervenes. He and Gifford discuss the situation with the captain, who fearfully confesses that the mermaid made him do things against his will. Then he commits suicide. A storm begins to close in on them, and they gradually approach the mermaids home, The Forbidden Islands, prompting the crew to realise that their captive had taken control of the ship and led them off course. While sharing a moment with Lily, the mermaid then reveals her true monstrous form as the Queen of the Lair and her intention to feed the crew to her people. The crew try to fight her off but are killed one by one, save for Lily, who is spared. Lily is rescued by the crew of a passing ship a fortnight later. They question her about what happened but she refuses to say anything, honouring the Queen with silence. The film ends by showing Lily and her daughter, whose eyes resemble those of the mermaid.
She Creature
2001