This film is an existential look at the lives of Jefferson "Jake" (Kevin Bacon) and Kristy Briggs (Elizabeth McGovern), from their wedding day until the birth of their first child. Beginning on their wedding day, it follows both their lives, but more so Jakes, with his voiceover commentaries and several imaginary scenes based on actual or feared future events. Jake asks his best friend, Davis McDonald (Alec Baldwin) before the wedding if he thinks hell be happy, to which his friend says, "Yeah, youll be happy. You just wont know it." This is the underlying theme of the movie, Jakes existential crisis of, "Is this all there is? Is this really my life?" After their wedding, Jake and Kristy head off for New Mexico, where Jake works towards gaining a Masters Degree, but leaves before finishing, describing it as "high school with ashtrays." They return to Chicago where Jake, by "setting new records for lying in the job market," impresses his potential employers so much that they give him work as an advertising copywriter. Jake wants to be a writer and tells his bosses this, which amuses and threatens one boss who had failed at ever writing a book. Kristy also gains work as a research analyst, and they are able to buy a "three-bedroom mortgage" in the suburbs; while their lives are typical, they do not do many things out of the ordinary. Jakes best friend suddenly visits after not seeing him for two years, which causes the two to both envy one anothers lives, and to also reaffirm their own. Davis tells them that his father has died, and Jake and Kristy are supportive, allowing him to stay the night. Things take a turn for the worse when Davis makes a physical pass at Kristy, by trying to get her bathrobe open and proclaiming his feelings, but Kristy turns him down, telling him that she is in love with Jake. Meanwhile, Jake begins fantasizing about having an affair with a mysterious young French model, who is wise beyond Jakes years. Jake and Kristy then continue to adjust to their new lives until Kristy unilaterally decides to cease taking contraceptives without telling Jake, until after several months, she informs him that he has been unable to impregnate her. Kristy knows who she is and what she wants in life and seemingly always has. Jake feels pressure, from society and from his wife, to have a child. He doesnt know what he wants. The couple begins a program to assist their efforts to become pregnant, which eventually succeed. They inform their parents of this, and while all are overjoyed, Kristys mother casually informs them that she had a difficult birth with Kristy and nearly died. The movie culminates with a traumatic yet eventually successful labor and Jakes realization that his lack of satisfaction and sense of detachment are not due to external factors but his own selfishness and immaturity. Jake is called into Kristys hospital room, worried, but she smiles at him, stating that she wanted to be the one to tell him that they have a son. The last scene of the film reveals that Jakes voiceover was the new father reading his novel entitled Shes Having a Baby to his wife and son. As the credits roll, there is a rapid succession of suggestions for the name of the baby by numerous cameos including Roy Orbison, Joanna Kerns, Magic Johnson, Ted Danson, Woody Harrelson, Wil Wheaton, Belinda Carlisle and Kirstie Alley. John Candy, Dan Aykroyd, and Matthew Broderick were in character as Chet Ripley, Roman Craig, and Ferris Bueller during the end credits.
She's Having a Baby
1988