An unnamed abused dog runs away from his cruel owner, Judd Travers (Scott Wilson), and meets a boy named Marty Preston (Blake Heron). The dog follows the boy to his home, but is not allowed to stay with him. Marty decides to remodel an abandoned shack at the top of a hidden hill for the dog to stay in for the next few weeks. Marty bonds with the dog, and names him Shiloh. Martys strict father, Ray Preston (Michael Moriarty), will not let Marty keep Shiloh because he belongs to Judd Travers, a local hunter. Judd is a mean old man that hunts with his dogs. Shiloh was the most mistreated in the pack. Marty hesitantly returns Shiloh to Judd, but, after Shiloh is mistreated again, the dog returns to Marty. Knowing Ray will make him take Shiloh back to Judd, Marty decides to hide Shiloh in a shed behind his house. His secret is soon revealed when his mother, Louise Preston (Ann Dowd), comes up the hill and sees Marty and Shiloh bonding. When a German Shepherd belonging to the Bakers family attacks Shiloh, Marty turns to Ray for help. Marty takes Shiloh to a vet and Shiloh recovers quickly. Soon, Ray says that it is time to take Shiloh back to Judd. Marty urges his father to keep Shiloh, pleading about how Judd abuses the dog. Ray initially agrees to keep Shiloh until he recovers, and tries not to become attached to Shiloh. That night, when Ray thinks Marty is asleep he gives the dog a treat, and soon his heart softens toward granting Martys wish. Eventually Marty goes to see Judd, and asks him if he can clean up Judds place in exchange of Shiloh. Judd agrees. Marty works the next few days at Judds, and is very excited to get his new pet. After all of Martys hard work, Judd says that there were no witnesses to the deal, and that a contract is not valid without it. Marty fights with the beer-guzzling Judd, because he worked a lot for Shiloh. Marty continues working, though, sometimes overtime without being paid a penny more. Marty told Judd that he wanted Shiloh and that he worked very hard for nothing. Marty keeps Shiloh for the next few days, until Judd comes again to take the dog. Marty fights with Judd again about keeping Shiloh with the help of Ray. Judd then tries to kidnap Shiloh. Ray comes to the rescue and knocks Judd down, and they both fight. Judd escapes Ray, grabs Shiloh, and drives away in his truck. Marty can already tell how much Judd is going to abuse Shiloh. Watching Marty and Shiloh in the mirror, Judd seems to consider everything and releases Shiloh from his truck and the dog runs into Martys arms. Sheena Easton sings the theme "Are There Angels" for the Shiloh soundtrack during the credits, which show Marty happily walking with Shiloh at his side.
Shiloh (film)
1996