Clay Lomax is released from prison after serving nearly eight years for robbing a bank. After saying farewell to the prison warden who warns him not to come back. He goes looking for his former crime partner Sam Foley (James Gregory), a bank robber who shot Lomax in the back as they ran from the bank and left him to be arrested. Learning of his release, Foley hires a trio of young thugs—Pepe (Pepe Serna), Skeeter (John Davis Chandler), and Bobby Jay Jones— (Robert F. Lyons) to track Lomaxs movements. Lomax locates an old friend, Trooper (Jeff Corey), a former U.S. Army cavalry soldier, now confined to a wheelchair running a town saloon and offers him money for information about his double-dealing ex-partner and the name of the place where Foley is now located. The thugs catch up to Lomax at Troopers saloon / hotel and force Alma (Susan Tyrrell), a prostitute / saloon girl working for the gruff but kindly old soldier, to spend the night with them. They wind up disturbing Clay from his sleep with his old girlfriend Emma (Rita Gam) with the wild racket in the neighboring room, and have an altercation with a thrown hidden knife from his boot in the corridor when then Lomax slaps Bobby Jay showing him whos the better man, savaging the crazed ego of the young budding predator criminal. Later he meets a passing train at the whistle stop to meet an old lady companion who was bringing a large sum of money that she had held safe for him all these years. But unexpectedly surprisingly, the conductor Mr. Frenatore (Paul Fix) brings out a young 10 year old little girl Decky Ortega (Dawn Lyn) that had accompanied the woman on her train journey but who had unfortunately died a few days before in a distant town leaving the girl an orphan. After hemming and hawing undecided, he finally grabs the child pulling her off the train protesting. Then the conductor hands him a big wad of cash saying that if he hadnt retrieved and taken custody of the kid, then the money would gone along with her for her support when the railroad employee turned her over to a sheriff in the next large town on the line. He takes it to Trooper to pay him for his revealing information and then goes through the village, trying to find someone who would take care of Decky, from substantial upright citizens like store owners, school teachers, ministers but is unsuccessful and frustrated. Meanwhile, the thugs mistreat and leave bruises on Alma, then vandalize the hotel/saloon as the old handicapped owner demands restitution. then led by Bobby Jay, they fatally shoot Trooper and rob the saloon, taking Lomaxs money and Alma with them, before continuing to follow Lomax. Lomax returns, learning of Troopers tragic death and that he mentioned the location "Gun Hill" with his dying breath. During the following journey to Gun Hill, Lomax and little stubborn Decky bond closer, especially after he throws her in a stream to wash and hand scrubs her, then gently dries and warms her by the campfire. She asks him plaintively if he his her father which he denies, but he knew her mother well and the paternal implication is clear. Another night, the gang of thugs attempt to attack Lomax in his camp, but he outfoxes and disarms them, and when finding out the purpose of their trailing mission, tells them to go ahead and run back to Foley in Gun Hill and tell them that he is coming for him. Later, a rainstorm forces Lomax and Decky to take shelter at the cabin in the woods of a lonely widow woman with a young well mannered son, named Juliana Farrell (Patricia Quinn), who quickly becomes infatuated with Lomax and offers her comfort and to watch over Decky. The thugs then return later in the night and take them all prisoner. Bobby Jay gets drunk, tortures the young mother by using her son and saying he was going to shoot a target off his head. Later, he eventually kills saloon girl Alma in his inebriation. Lomax manages to escape, with Bobby Jay accidentally killing his gang member Skeeter in the process. Bobby Jay grabs Decky and flees the house to find the other outlaw Pepe. When Pepe insults him outside having heard the shots inside, Bobby Jay kills him too, and Decky takes advantage of his distraction to escape in the night. Now alone, Bobby Jay then rides ahead to warn Foley, and get his promised money, but kills him when he gets greedy seeing the amount of cash in Foleys safe, asking for more. Foley tries to reach for a gun, and is shot dead. Bobby Jay is then ambushed by Lomax, who arrives shortly while Bobby is gathering his loot and surprises the murderer. Now enraged with righteous anger and revenge for Trooper, Clay now gives Bobby Jay a taste of his own earlier medicine, psychologically tortures him while demanding Deckys whereabouts. When he confesses that he has no idea where she is, Lomax places a cartridge on top of Bobby Jays head, and tells him that either the cartridge will explode and kill him, or Bobby Jay will not be fast enough to quick draw his gun to kill Lomax. Bobby Jay tries to outdraw Lomax but cannot and is shot dead by the far more experienced gunslinger. Lomax leaves the money with Foley and Bobby Jays bodies, tells the maid to go get the law, and then go finds Decky back at Julianas house.
Shoot Out
1971