The Carsons and the Pritchards have been feuding in the town of Carsons Corners for generations. The budding romance between Will Carson (Gene Autry) and Marjorie Pritchard (Marjorie Weaver) is now being threatened by the long-standing feud. Margories father, Calvin Pritchard (Frank M. Thomas), is the bank president and mayor of Carsons Corners. Calvin pretends to support Wills courtship of his daughter because he needs to acquire a piece of Carson property for a proposed highway through the area. When Will learns of Calvins true motives, he accuses Marjorie of scheming with her father to steal Carson land. The long simmering feud between the Carsons and the Pritchards erupts over Wills accusation. Just as the families renew their bickering, Gabby Cross (Jack Carson), a publicity agent for Spectrum Pictures, arrives in town and offers the townspeople $20,000 to use Carsons Corners as a filming location for a movie he is making about Wild Bill Carson, Wills grandfather and the founder of Carson Corners. Still angered by Wills undermining his highway plan, Calvin refuses Gabbys offer. His youngest daughter, Jane (Jane Withers), suggests a compromise that would allow Spectrum Pictures to use the town as a filming location if the highway proposal were approved by the Carsons. With all parties agreeing to the proposal, the movie company arrives in town and begins production. The star of the film, Bob Merritt (Robert Lowery), begins to court Marjorie. Wanting her sister to marry Will, Jane and the sheriff devise a plan to frighten Merritt out of town, telling him a lynch party is after him. After Merritt leaves town, the head of Spectrum Pictures threatens to sue Pritchard for the defection. Gabby suggests giving the part to Will, who agrees on the condition that Pritchard extend the Carson mortgages. While the movie is being filmed, three gangsters arrive in town. During a bank hold-up scene, the three gangsters put on actors costumes and steal the money from the bank. Learning of the theft, Will pursues the gangsters on horseback, catches them, and brings them back to Carson Corners with the money. Wills heroic actions wins the respect of the Pritchards, as well as Margories respect and hand in marriage.
Shooting High
1940