NOVA Laboratories robotics experts Newton Graham Crosby and Ben Jabituya develop several prototype robots called S.A.I.N.T. (Strategic Artificially Intelligent Nuclear Transport) for the U.S. military to use in Cold War operations, though Crosby and Jabituya would rather seek peaceful applications of the robots. During a live demonstration for the military, one unit is struck by lightning, scrambling its programming, and making it sentient. It then escapes the NOVA facility. The robot ends up in Astoria, Oregon, and is found by Stephanie Speck, an animal care-giver, who mistakes it for an alien. She takes the robot to her home, where she provides it "input" in the form of visual and verbal stimuli, allowing the robot to improve its language skills, and eventually names itself "Number 5", being the fifth prototype produced. Stephanie continues to help the curious Number 5 robot learn about the world. She eventually discovers that Number 5 was built by NOVA, and contacts them about the lost robot. The president of NOVA Laboratories, Dr. Howard Marner, orders Crosby and Jabituya to recover it, so they can disassemble and rebuild it. While waiting for NOVA to arrive, Number 5 learns about death when he accidentally crushes a grasshopper, and concludes that if NOVA disassembles him, he will die, and escapes in Stephanies truck. However, NOVA uses a tracking device on Number 5 to corner him and deactivate the robot for return to the facility. During transport, Number 5 is able to reactivate itself, remove the tracking device, and flee back to Stephanie. Because of these unusual actions, Crosby tries to convince Marner that Number 5 may be sentient, but Marner refuses to believe it. Instead, Marner sends their security chief Captain Skroeder and three other S.A.I.N.T. prototypes to recapture Number 5. Number 5 is able to outwit the other robots by reprogramming them to act as The Three Stooges, and escapes. Taking a NOVA van with spare robot parts, Crosby finds Number 5 with Stephanie, and Number 5 is able to convince Crosby of his sentience. They find that Skroeder has called in the United States Army to capture Number 5. As Marner, Skroeder, NOVA security guard, and the military officers corner the three, Crosby lies to them to stall. As Marner desperately tries to persuade Crosby to surrender Number 5, Skroeder orders NOVAs security forces to attack Number 5. To protect Crosby and Stephanie, Number 5 leads the Army away from them and appears to be destroyed in a firefight. Marner laments the loss of the prototype and fires Skroeder, while Crosby resigns from NOVA, and drives away with Stephanie in the NOVA van. They are surprised to discover that Number 5 had hid itself under the van, having quickly assembled a decoy Number 5 from the spare parts to drive the Army away. Crosby decides to take Number 5 to his fathers secluded Montana ranch where there will be lots of "input" for the robot, and Stephanie agrees to come with them, as long as she brings her animals. As they drive off, Number 5 asserts that its name should now be "Johnny 5" based on the song "Whos Johnny" playing on the vans radio.
Short Circuit (1986 film)
1988