The first half of the film is set at Benedict Boys Home. Jesse Tucker (Jamie Walters) and his four friends live and toil with other guys under strict guidance of Eugene who has a lovely daughter Sara (Heather Graham). They have a music teacher Jack Cabe (John Travolta) who is into rock and roll and teaches them the same, much to the irritation of Eugene who wants to fire him but let him after a warning, Jack then tells them to somehow arrange a radio and listen to the show Midnight Rider. Jesse bets with the guys that he would have sex with Sara, but instead falls in love with her. They go to the club where they see people enjoying rock n roll to the hilt and Jesse gets inspired and gives an impressive performance on stage. Jack Cabe gets into an altercation with the town sheriff, who is miffed with the wayward ways of his and decides to find the truth about his past. At school Jesse and his friends come in touch with the girls while attending a lecture on the polluting effects of modern music and television. One of the guys who is attracted to Sara tells her about the bet. After her initial anger she is won over by Jesse by his honest demeanor and truth. Jack Cabe is discovered to be a murderer on the run and flees on seeing cops at his place. Jesse steals Eugenes car and goes to Jack where he confides about an accidental murder that happened defending his colored friend in a club where they were invited to give Rock N Roll performance. Jesse asks him to stop running, but Jack asks him to shut up and turns him away. Jesse returns to the boys home. He does all he can to survive there, including Sara to keep himself out of trouble with her dad. At a fair where Benedicts Boys band was asked to play, they begin with usual music, but on seeing Jack surrendering, Jesse mans up and starts playing rock n roll much to the delight of young people who respond immediately and dance while inviting disapproving gestures from elders. The last scene where Eugene is shown unsuccessfully trying to stop the band while his daughter rises up with joy ready to resume her relationship with Jesse.
Shout (film)
1991