Miles Raymond is an unsuccessful writer, a wine aficionado, and a divorced, depressed, borderline alcoholic middle-aged English teacher living in San Diego. He takes Jack Cole, his soon-to-be-married actor friend and former college roommate, on a road trip through the Santa Ynez Valley wine country. Though Cole is still recognized on occasion, his acting career appears to have peaked years earlier, when he had a role in a popular TV soap. He now does commercial voice-overs and plans to enter his future father-in-laws successful real estate business. Miles wants to spend the week relaxing, playing golf and enjoying good food and wine. However, much to Miles consternation, Jack is on the prowl and wants one last sexual fling before settling into domestic life. In the wine country, the pair visit Miles favorite restaurant, The Hitching Post II, and encounter Maya, a waitress with whom Miles is casually acquainted. Jack senses that Maya is interested in Miles, who believes she is married. Jack lies to Maya that Miles manuscript has been accepted for publication, even though it is only being considered. At a tasting in a local winery, Jack and Miles meet a wine pourer named Stephanie, who is also acquainted with Maya. Jack is immediately attracted to Stephanie and arranges a double date, having discovered Maya is no longer married. During the date, Miles gets drunk and telephones Vicki, his ex-wife, after learning from Jack that she has remarried. The two couples go to Stephanies home, where she and Jack immediately adjourn to her bedroom for sex. Miles and Maya connect through their mutual interest in wine. Maya says she is finishing a masters degree in horticulture so she can get out of being a waitress. They leave separately, but not before Miles gives her a copy of his manuscript. Jacks affair with Stephanie continues, to the point where he believes hes falling in love; he bonds with her daughter and suggests to Miles that they move there for him to be closer to Stephanie. He wants to call off his wedding. After spending a day together, Miles and Maya return to her apartment and have sex. The next morning, Miles lets it slip that Jack is to be married. Disgusted with the mens dishonesty, Maya dumps Miles and tells Stephanie, who, furious and devastated that shes been used, breaks Jacks nose. On finding out his manuscript has been rejected, Miles drinks heavily at a vineyard. When a server cuts him off, he ends up drinking from the spit bucket in the tasting room, creating a scene. That night, Jack hooks up with another waitress named Cammi, who recognizes him from his acting career. Hours later, Jack shows up at the motel  – naked and confessing that Cammis husband came home while she and Jack were having sex. Jack was forced to flee without his clothes and wallet (which contains a pair of irreplaceable wedding rings). He convinces Miles to sneak into the house, where he discovers Cammi and her husband having sex. Miles grabs the wallet and runs, barely escaping Cammis irate husband, who pursues him in the nude. To explain his broken nose to his fiancée, Jack runs Miles Saab 900 convertible into a tree, giving the appearance they had been in an accident. The pair return to the fiancées home, where Jack is welcomed with open arms. Miles meanwhile drives away in his battered car. Following the wedding ceremony, Miles runs into his ex-wife Vicki and meets her new husband. Learning that she is pregnant, Miles hits rock bottom. Alone, he drinks his prized wine, a 1961 Château Cheval Blanc, from a disposable styrofoam soda cup at a fast-food restaurant. Time passes as Miles returns to the routine of teaching school. One day he receives a voice-mail from Maya, who says she enjoyed his manuscript and invites him to visit. Miles is seen driving back to wine country and knocking on Mayas door.
Sideways
2004