Barry Gabrewski is an asthmatic boy who lives with his widowed father, Jerry Gabrewski (Beau Bridges), in Houston, Texas. A loner, Barry has vivid daydreams about being Chuck Norris sidekick, battling against Norriss movie enemies, who are often personified by Barrys everyday bullies such as Randy Cellini (John Buchanan). Noreen Chan (Julia Nickson-Soul), his favorite teacher, often plays the damsel in distress in these daydreams. Barry wants to learn the martial arts, but is rejected by the arrogant dojo owner Kelly Stone (Joe Piscopo) for being too weak. Instead, he is taken on as a student by an old Chinese man called Mr. Lee (Mako), the sly uncle of his teacher and the owner of a local Chinese restaurant, "Frying Dragon". Mr. Lee finds creative ways to teach Barry to defend himself from his bullies. Lee devises training methods that increase Barrys endurance, which helps his asthma. Lee also deduces Barrys hero worship of Norris and from that, deduces at least some of Barrys daydreams. He creatively incorporates this into Barrys training, creating training scenarios that seem more dangerous than they are so that Barry will feel heroic for succeeding at them. Lee enters himself, Barry, and Chan into a local team Karate tournament but is a bit stymied to learn that a team must have four members. Norris is attending the tournament as a guest. Chan (at Lees urging) convinces Norris to join the team. Norris is both willing to help an ardent fan and has his own motivation for participating: he has encountered Stone on several prior occasions and wants to teach him "a lesson in humility." Barry is stunned to find himself working together with his hero. The tournament involves four events: Breaking, Mens Weapons, Female Kata, and Freestyle fighting. Stones team narrowly defeats Chan in the Female Kata, but Lee defeats Cellini, one of Stones students, in Breaking. True to his word, Norris defeats Stone in Freestyle fighting. Barry—aided by a vivid daydream—scores a victory in Mens Weapons. The result is a tie between Stones team and Lees team. In the tie-breaker, Lee is allowed to choose the participants, and chooses Barry and Cellini, saying Barry is the member of the team with "something to prove." Stone chooses the event, Breaking. Barry is dismayed to be confronting Cellini in the latters best event but Lee tilts the odds in Barrys favor by using a small amount of lighter fluid to set Barrys bricks on fire. Faced with a much more heroic-seeming task, Barry wins. After the tournament, Barry is seen talking to Norris, thanking him for his help. Norris vanishes, and it is implied that Barry has found the strength to live his life without the need for his daydreams. Before the movie fades to black, a young boy finds Barrys Chuck Norris magazine. With an excited "Wow" the camera pans out to reveal the young man is in a wheelchair.
Sidekicks (1992 film)
1992