During the fifth century, the Roman Empire is divided into two parts: the West, with its capital in Rome, run by Emperor Valentinian III, and the East, with its capital in Constantinople, run by Emperor Theodosius. The Empire is under attack by the Huns under Attila. Roman soldier Marcian is carrying a message from Valentinian warning Theodosius against the Huns, when he is captured by Attila. Attila is impressed by Marcians honesty and courage. He carves out the arrow that has been shot into his leg, causing Marcian to pass out. Over the next few days, Attila keeps Marcian hostage in the hopes of learning more about the Romans plans. The Huns capture a local kings family and Attila orders them killed, except for the daughter, Ilduco, whom he takes as his wife. Later, when Attilas daughter, Kubra, shows off her fathers prize stallion, Marcian steals it and flees to Constantinople. In Constantinople, Marcian is befriended by General Paulinus, who confides that Theodosius is planning to join forces with the Huns against Valentinian. This is confirmed when Marcian brings his emperors message to Theodosius, who throws him out. Theodosius sister, Princess Pulcheria, calls Marcian to her chambers. She admits that she loves Rome, but is kept prisoner within the palace walls. She names Marcian the captain of her guard, asking him to protect her from Theodosius mutiny. That night, Theodosius holds a feast to welcome the Hun leaders. Although Attila has not been invited, he arrives to command the allegiance of all other Barbarians, and easily defeats the strongest man in Constantinople. Frightened, Theodosius offers him furs and jewels, but Attila demands only that Marcian teach the Huns how to use Roman weapons. Although Kubra is the first to practice with the weapons, Marcian deposits her in the harem bathing pool. Later, Pulcheria sends for Attila. She asks him to release Marcian from his duties, but Attila kisses her roughly and then leaves to meet Theodosius, who agrees to pay each month in return for Attilas promise not to attack. Later, Marcian also approaches the Hun, warning him that because Rome is Christian, it will never fall. Attila merely laughs at him, but when Kubra visits the church the next day, she is awed by the portrait of Mary and longs for the peace she feels there. She tries to refuse to leave, but Attila forces her to accompany the Huns out of the city. The next night, Attila gathers the Barbarian leaders and announces that they will attack Rome immediately. As soon as his soothsayer announces that the signs are positive, a bolt of lightning strikes a tree that falls on him. Although this concerns the Huns, Attila names it a good omen. Soon after, his men bring two captured monks to him, and Attila, who does not dare anger the Christian god, orders the soldiers killed. The monks then beg him not to kill the soldiers, baffling Attila. As the Huns gather outside Rome, Marcian, finding no help for Valentinian with Theodosius, prepares to flee the palace, but is captured upon stopping to bid Pulcheria goodbye. While Attilas new seer, whom he calls Persian, relates a vision of Marcian as emperor, Paulinus releases Marcian from the dungeon and the two sneak into Pulcherias. Together, they decide to gather the army against Theodosius and install Pulcheria to the throne. After Theodosius is forced to abdicate, Pulcheria names Marcian her top admiral and announces her plans to travel to Rome with him and their army to help guard its walls. Meanwhile, Persian is plagued by visions of God and martyrs in the clouds calling for Attilas death, and Attila remembers an image his childhood nurse saw in which he died under the shadow of a cross. Though fearful, he continues to disregard the signs. When Marcian reaches Rome, he finds Valentinian leaving, but retains two battalions to add to his own to protect the city. That night, Attila orders the attack, but stops when Pope Leo I arrives to name Rome the temple of God and foresee Attilas downfall, as portended by the lightning strike. Afterward, Attila realizes that Kubra must have told the Pope about the lightning, and, though he is heartbroken, kills her for betraying him. In his sleep that night, he sees a vision of the martyrs marching against him and, crazed, orders the Huns to retreat. Marcian hears and immediately plans to ambush Attila when he reaches the nearest city. The surprise attack demolishes the Huns, who soon fall. Marcian finds Attila and duels with him, but it is Ilduco, who has spent the last months overflowing with rage, who drives the fatal dagger into his chest. As prophesied, Attila dies with the swords handle forming the shadow of a cross on the ground. Days later, Pulcheria reunites the halves of the empire and names Marcian emperor, to the delight of the Roman people.
Sign of the Pagan
1954