The sequel picks up on Christmas Eve some years after the first movie, with Ricky Caldwell, the 18-year-old brother of the first films killer, now being held in a mental hospital, awaiting trial for a series of murders that he committed. While being interviewed by the psychiatrist Dr. Henry Bloom, Ricky tells the story of the murders his brother Billy committed throughout a series of several flashbacks using footage from the original film. These flashbacks have new shots to make Ricky appear in more of Billys original story. After this, Ricky tells his own story: after Billys death, he was adopted and given a good upbringing, but his trauma was never treated. After his foster fathers death, Ricky loses his composure and commits a series of random murders, targeting people who are "naughty". A chance for a normal life seems to appear when he starts dating Jennifer Statson, but an unpleasant encounter with Jennifers ex-boyfriend Chip sends Ricky over the edge. He kills Chip by electrocuting him with jumper cables that are attached to a car, while Jennifer watches and uses the car antenna to strangle Jennifer to death. A police officer witnessed this and as Ricky is about to get arrested, he grabs the officer’s gun, shoots him in the forehead, and goes on a shooting spree. Killing at least three people throughout a suburban neighborhood, including shooting one man through a garbage can after yelling "Garbage Day!". Later on, Ricky gets himself into a stand-off where he tries and fails to commit suicide before getting arrested by the police. Cutting back to the present day, Ricky kills Dr. Bloom and escapes from the mental hospital, murdering a Salvation Army Santa and stealing the costume. Ricky plans a mission to accomplish what Billy failed to do which is kill Mother Superior. After chasing Mother Superior throughout her house, Ricky succeeds in decapitating her. Ricky cleans up the blood and stages the scene to make it look like Mother Superior sitting in a chair by placing the loose unconnected head on her body. The police arrive and gun him down afterwards as Ricky shouts "boo" and "yeaah!". Sister Mary wakes up, and the police officer tells her, "Hes gone, Sister. Its over." Then, she turns over and sees Mother Superiors severed head, before screaming in terror. Ricky, who had been shot by the cops, suddenly opens his eyes and smiles devilishly, indicating that he had survived his gunshot wounds. The final shot shows Billys arm dressed in a Santa suit plunging a knife into the screen, before it freezes and the credits roll.
Silent Night, Deadly Night Part 2
1987