Silent Hill 3 takes place in the fictional universe of the Silent Hill series. Seventeen years before the start of Silent Hill 3, Harry Mason defeated a god brought forth by a cult of Silent Hill and at the ending, was given a baby girl to care for. The protagonist and player character of Silent Hill 3 is Heather, Harrys now-teenage daughter. Silent Hill 3 opens with her nightmare of being trapped in a demented amusement park and run down by the roller coaster. She awakens in a burger restaurant, but before she can leave the mall, private detective Douglas Cartland confronts her, claiming to have information about her birth. Heather evades him and discovers that the mall is mostly abandoned except for monsters. She then encounters Claudia, who hints that Heather will be instrumental in bringing about paradise on earth. Heather soon finds herself in the Otherworld version of the mall — monster-filled, bloodstained, and decaying — and eventually returns to the original shopping mall, where she encounters Douglas. He confesses that Claudia had hired him to find her. Heather leaves the mall and resolves to take the subway home. When she returns to her apartment, she discovers that Claudia had her father murdered out of revenge and to engender hatred in Heather. Claudia informs her that she will be waiting for her in Silent Hill and leaves. Intent on killing Claudia, Heather resolves to go to Silent Hill and accepts Douglass offer to drive her there. On the journey there, Douglas explains that Vincent, a fellow cultist, told them to look for a man named Leonard, while Heather learns from a memo left by her father that she is the baby left to him. Because Heather is Alessas reincarnation, Claudia intends for Heather to birth the cults god. Arriving in the abandoned and fog-shrouded town, Heather eventually finds a transformed Leonard in a local hospital. Revealed to be Claudias abusive father, he attacks Heather after learning that she is not a member of the cult. Heather defeats him and eventually meets Vincent, who directs her to a church via a local amusement park, purportedly at Douglas request. When Heather arrives at the amusement park, she finds him wounded, having tried to stop Claudia. He considers killing Heather to stop the god from being born, but decides against it. Heather reaches the church, and after Claudia kills Vincent, confronts her. Heather vomits out the fetal deity, using a substance Harry gave her before his death, and Claudia promptly swallows it; she dies after birthing the deity. Heather then fights and defeats the god. Three endings appear in the game. The "Normal" ending, which is the only ending available on the first play-through of the game, sees Heather and Douglas survive, while in the "Possessed" ending, Heather kills Douglas. In the "Revenge" ending, which is a joke ending accessible by performing certain in-game actions, Heather reunites with Harry, and Harry orders UFOs to blow up Silent Hill. According to Silent Hill: Homecoming, the "Normal" ending is the canon one as one of Douglas files can be found in the game.
Silent Hill 3
2012