In a small Texas town, John Kirby, a mentally ill man, kills two members of the family with whom he was staying. Sheriff Daniel "Dan" Stevens and his deputy Charlie, respond and eventually arrest John, but he breaks out of the handcuffs, overpowers the other officers and grabs one of their revolvers, forcing the officers to open fire and shoot John. Severely injured and near death, John is transported to an institute where his psychiatrist, Thomas "Tom" Halman, works along with two medical doctors who are also genetic engineers: Dr. Phillip Spires and Dr. Paul Vaughn. To save John, Phillip proposes treating him with a formula created by himself and Paul to enhance cellular strength and regeneration. Tom objects to its use due to Johns psychosis, and Phillip initially agrees, but later administers the formula anyway once Tom leaves. Revived and rendered nearly mute but virtually invulnerable, John escapes from the institute and tracks Tom to his home. Meanwhile, Dan invites Toms sister Alison, whom is he romancing, on a trip. John breaks into Toms home and the two fight. Despite shooting John several times and pushing him down a flight of stairs, Tom is killed. Toms wife Nancy finds her husbands body and is killed by John as well. Alison arrives to pick up her gear for the trip and discovers her brother and sister-in-laws corpses, but John flees as Dan and Charlie arrive with the police. Dan and Charlie take Alison to the institute, unaware that John has also returned there to get Phillip and Paul to treat his wounds. Realizing that the situation is out of control, Phillip leaves to examine samples while Paul attempts to kill John by injecting him with acid. John survives and kills Paul after a brief struggle by stabbing him with the syringe. After finding Pauls body, Phillip returns to his office, where he briefly speaks to John before he snaps his neck. With Dan elsewhere, Charlie and Alison discover John killing another of the workers; Charlie attempts to arrest him but is mortally wounded when John breaks his back. Dan returns just in time to discover Charlie dying and protects Alison from John. After a chase, Dans car crashes with John hanging onto it, lighting him on fire. This injures him, but he jumps into a nearby lake and quickly recovers. With Alison watching, Dan and Kirby engage in hand-to-hand combat. Both men score blows, but Dan overwhelms John by roundhouse kicking him several times before throwing him into a nearby well, seemingly killing him. With Johns carnage at an end, Dan and Alison leave. However, deep in the well, John suddenly bursts from the water, having survived.
Silent Rage
1982