In 1971, 5-year-old Billy Chapman and his family go to visit a nursing home where his catatonic grandfather stays; when Billy remains alone with him for a few minutes, his grandfather suddenly awakens and tells Billy how he has to be afraid of Santa Claus, as he give presents only to the children whove been good all year, but punishes the ones whove been naughty, no matter how briefly. While driving back, a criminal dressed in a Santa outfit, who robbed a liquor store and killed the store clerk, seemingly has car trouble and gets Billys familys attention to pull over and help. As they pull over, the Santa-clad criminal shoots the father with a pistol and slits the mothers throat with a switchblade in front of Billy and his younger brother Ricky. Billy then runs off to hide leaving Ricky in the car. Three years later in 1974, Billy and Ricky are celebrating Christmas in an orphanage run by Mother Superior, a strict disciplinarian who persistently strikes children who misbehave and considers punishment for their wicked actions a good thing. Sister Margaret, the only one who sympathizes with the children, tries to help Billy play with the other children, but Billy is constantly subject to Mother Superiors scrutinizing eyes and regularly punished. On Christmas morning, the orphanage invites a man in a Santa Claus suit to visit the children; Billy gets dragged by Mother Superior and he punches the man before fleeing to his room in horror. Ten years later, in Spring of 1984, a now adult Billy leaves the orphanage to find a normal life, and obtains a job as a stock boy at a local toy store thanks to Sister Margaret. At the store, he develops a crush on his coworker Pamela; he has sexual thoughts regarding her which are often interrupted by morbid visions of his parents murders. On Christmas Eve, the employee who plays the stores Santa Claus has been injured the night before and as a result Billys boss Mr. Sims makes him take his place. After the store closes, the staff has a Christmas Eve party. Billy (still dressed in a Santa Claus suit) tries to have a good time at the party, but he keeps having memories of his parents murder causing him to feel depressed. At one point, he sees his co-worker Andy making out with Pamela and they both walk into the back room. Billy walks after them and sees Andy trying to rape Pamela. This finally psychologically triggers his insanity; he hangs Andy with a string of Christmas lights and stabs Pamela with a utility knife, uttering darkly that punishment is good. A highly intoxicated Mr. Sims goes into back room to check on the noises he heard. Just when hes about to leave, Billy murders him with a hammer. Billy turns off the stores lights, causing his manager Mrs. Randall to go check out the back room. She screams at the sight of Mr. Sims corpse and tries to call the police but Billy takes a double-bit axe to cut the phone line, causing her to run and hide. Billy walks around the store trying to find her and at one point Mrs. Randall jumps out and trips Billy, stealing his axe. Before she can do this, Billy shoots her with a bow and arrow, killing her. As Sister Margaret discovers the carnage and returns to the orphanage to seek help via telephone, Billy breaks into a nearby house where a young couple named Denise and Tommy are having sex and a little girl named Cindy is sleeping; Billy then impales Denise on a set of deer antlers before he throws Tommy through a window. When this awakens Cindy, Billy then confronts her and asks her if she has been nice or naughty; she says nice and Billy gives her the utility knife he had used earlier. After this, he witnesses bullies picking on two sledding teenage boys and decapitates one of the bullies with his axe as the other screams in horror. The next morning, the orphanage is secured with Officer Barnes and Captain Richards aided by Sister Margaret, who knows that Billy has committed the murders. The deaf pastor, Father OBrien, who was dressed in a Santa outfit, is mistakenly shot by Barnes upon coming forward and is soon axed by Billy while distracted. Due to his Santa outfit, Billy gains access into the orphanage and confronts Mother Superior, who remains in a wheelchair. She taunts Billy due to her disbelief in Santa Claus and just as he prepares to kill her with his axe, Richards appears and shoots him in the back much to Sister Margarets disapproval. As the dying Billy lays on the ground, he utters to the nearby children "Youre safe now, Santa Claus is gone." before succumbing to his wounds. As the children gather around, his younger brother Ricky witnesses this and coldly staring at Mother Superior, he utters "naughty".
Silent Night, Deadly Night
1984