Emmett is ambushed by three men while he sleeps in an isolated shack. In a brief gunfight, he kills all of the assailants. As he sets out for the town of Silverado, Emmett finds a man, Paden, lying in the desert, having been robbed and left to die. Emmett and Paden stop in the town of Turley, where it turns out that Emmetts brother, Jake, is locked up and awaiting hanging for killing a man in self-defense. Paden is thrown in the same cell after he encounters and kills one of the men who robbed him. Emmett aids them in a breakout with the help of Mal, a cowboy run out of town by sheriff John Langston. After helping a wagon train of settlers recover stolen money from thieves, then leading them to Silverado, the four men part ways. Emmett and Jake visit their sister, whose husband, the land agent for the area, informs them that rancher Ethan McKendrick is attempting to maintain the open range, which he will dominate with his enormous herds of cattle, by driving all lawful claimants off the land. Emmett had killed McKendricks father years earlier in a gunfight. Emmett also learns that McKendrick hired the men who attempted to kill him upon his release from prison. Mal finds his father Ezra left destitute after his home had been burned down and his land overrun by cattle. Mal has a sister, Rae, who has gone off on her own, taking up with Calvin "Slick" Stanhope, a shifty gambler. A ruthless sheriff named Cobb, an old acquaintance of Padens, is now on McKendricks payroll. Cobb arranges for Paden to supervise the gambling in a saloon owned by Cobb and managed by Stella, an honest woman who despises Cobb and welcomes Padens presence. Hannah, a young widow from the wagon train, has also caught Padens eye. McKendricks men murder Ezra, burn the land office, and kidnap Emmetts young nephew Augie, so once again, Paden, Mal, Emmett, and Jake join forces to set things right. They stampede McKendricks cattle to provide cover for a raid on his ranch, in which most of the bandits are killed and the kidnapped boy is rescued. The men return to town, where, in a series of encounters, each defeats his own personal enemy. First, Jake is hunted by Tyree, Cobbs right hand, whom he outsmarts and shoots dead. Mal rescues Rae from Slick and stabs him fatally with his own knife. Emmett and McKendrick battle on horseback; when Emmett rams McKendrick and his mount from a higher point, his horses hoof strikes McKendrick in the head and he falls to his death. Finally, Paden faces off with Cobb in a showdown in the street, and is quicker to the draw. Emmett and Jake leave for California, their long-stated goal, while Mal and his sister reunite and decide to rebuild their fathers homestead. Paden is named the new sheriff of Silverado and settles there.
Silverado (film)
1985