Doris Blake (Carole Lombard) works as a top model for Louis in a very chic New York City dress shop. Her boyfriend Jimmie Martin (Chester Morris) is a mechanic. When he comes to pick her up, he talks about marriage, but she argues they both have no money. At a picnic, they quarrel again, and he breaks up with her. Later, Doris meets the very rich, very eccentric Claire Kinkaid (Adrienne Ames) at the shop. To Doriss surprise, Claire does not much care for her own lavish lifestyle. Claire asks her if she has a boyfriend; when Doris tells her they broke up, Claire tells her thats the only thing she wants. Jimmie is standing outside. When Doris and Claire step out, he pretends to be fixing a fancy car, which turns out to be Claires. When he wishes he could drive it, she invites him to do just that. Then, she offers him a job as her chauffeur. He accepts because he wants a change of scenery, far away from Doris. Later, Jimmie drives Claire to a charity fashion show, where Doris is one of the models (though Jimmie has to leave before she goes on). Doris "borrows" a swimsuit and goes for a swim before the show. She meets Eric Nelson (Walter Byron). When he becomes too fresh and kisses her, Doris slaps him, twice, and swims away. Eric sees her modeling. At the end of the party, she meets his wife. Eric assures her they will be divorcing soon. On the way home, Claire proposes to Jimmie. He turns her down. Meanwhile, Eric gets Doris to go out with him night after night. Her father becomes fed up with her (innocent) involvement with a married man and throws her out. When Jimmie finds out, he tells Claire he is quitting. She inquires if it is because of the girl he cannot forget, then asks him again to marry her. This time, he accepts. When Doris reads in the newspaper about Jimmie and Claires wedding. she becomes upset. Though she had turned down jewelry from Eric, now she accepts his lavish gifts and spending on her. Doris acquires an unwanted admirer, Ridgeway, who has grown tired of Lil. Lil confides to her friend Doris that she is in love with Ridgeway, then takes poison. Jimmie runs into Doris at a restaurant. He lashes out at her verbally and stalks out. Then, Ridgeway shows up with the news that Eric has patched things up with his wife. Ridgeway gives her a check from Eric and makes it clear he expects to take Erics place. Doris tells him to get out. Jimmie tells Claire that seeing Doris has made him realize what he is, a kept man. They part amicably. Eric finds Doris working as a dressmaker and tells her that he has gotten a divorce. He asks her to marry him, but she turns him down. Just then, Jimmies dog finds her. Jimmie has struck out on his own in his own business. The couple reconcile.
Sinners in the Sun
1932