Advertising salesman Philip Woode (Lisle Wilson) is the victim of a prank on a Candid Camera-style television show and wins a dinner for two at a New York restaurant. He takes with him Danielle Breton (Margot Kidder), a naive young Canadian model and aspiring actress who was hired as part of the prank. At dinner, they are interrupted by Danielles ex-husband Emil (William Finley), but Philip has him thrown out by security. They arrive to Danielles Staten Island apartment, but spot Emil waiting outside; Philip pretends to leave to lure him away, then returns through the back entrance and the two make love on the living room sofa. The next morning, Danielle wakes and feels unwell. Philip overhears an argument between her and her sister in the bedroom, and accidentally knocks Danielles pills down a drain. Danielle explains to Philip that her twin sister Dominique had arrived to visit because it is their birthday, and also asks him to go to the drug store to pick up some more pills. He does so, and also buys a birthday cake for the two. When he returns, he is suddenly stabbed to death by Dominique, who is crazed and delirious. The murder is witnessed by Grace Collier (Jennifer Salt), a reporter who lives in an apartment across the way, who calls the police. Emil knocks on Danielles door and finds the scene, then helps her clean up the blood and hide Philips body in the retractable couch. Two detectives arrive but are unhelpful and resentful toward Grace because of an article she had previously written about police brutality. Grace accompanies them on a search through Danielles apartment, who testifies that she had been alone all morning and the previous night; they find no evidence, while Grace finds the birthday cake with Danielles and Dominiques names written on it, but trips and destroys the cake before she can show it to the detectives. Grace is convinced that Danielle is hiding the murderer, and convinces her editor to let her investigate the story. He agrees, but forces her to take along Joseph Larch (Charles Durning), a private investigator. He searches Danielles apartment under the guise of a window cleaner, and is convinced that the body is hidden inside the couch due to its unnatural weight, but is interrupted by moving men who are directed to remove the couch. Larch follows the moving truck, while Grace discovers that Danielle and Dominique Blanchion were Canadas first conjoined twins. Dominique was very shy while Danielle was talkative and outgoing. They were separated only recently, but Dominique died during the operation. Grace then tails Emil and Danielle to a mental hospital and witnesses him subdue and sedate her, but is caught. Emil, a doctor at the hospital, convinces the staff that Grace is a new patient and has her locked in a room where he hypnotises her, telling her that the murder did not happen. Grace has a bizarre dream about the twins past and their separation. She wakes screaming hysterically only to have Emil coax her back to sleep. Danielle says that she wants Dominique while Emil reminds her that Dominique is dead. Danielle refuses to believe it, afraid Dominique will kill him. Emil makes her relax and tells her that whenever he tried to make love to her Dominiques angry persona took control over her. And all he could do was give her the pills to keep her sedated. Emil tells Danielle that he loves her and they kiss passionately. Dominique takes control of Danielle once again. After a struggle Emil attempts to interrogate her about the murder but she cuts him in the inner groin with a scalpel and he bleeds to death over her. Danielle reawakens with Emil lying dead on top of her and embraces his body. Grace awakens too, when she sees Danielle hugging the dead Emil, she screams in horror. The police arrest Danielle who denies that she committed any murders and that her sister died last spring. Later, Grace is interviewed by a detective about the death of Philip Woode, but still under Emils hypnosis, she completely denies her previous accusations. The final scene shows Larch, watching the sofa at a derelict train station in Canada while perched on a telephone pole.
Sisters (1973 film)
1973