High school sophomore Samantha "Sam" Baker struggles to go through the day on her 16th birthday, which her entire family has forgotten about because her older sister, Ginny, is getting married the next day. She is also plagued by infatuation with a popular and attractive senior, Jake Ryan. At school, she fares no better when she finds out that a completed "sex quiz", which she tried to surreptitiously slip to her friend Randy, never reached her friend Randy and, unbeknownst to either of them, was picked up by Jake. Despite her name not being on the quiz, Sam is still a bit panicked because the quiz contains sensitive information, such as how she is a virgin and is saving herself for Jake. During gym class, Jake opens up to his friend Rock, admitting that he feels like things with his girlfriend Caroline have become stagnant. He also tells him how he thinks it is cool that he keeps catching Sam looking at him from time to time. Meanwhile, an outgoing geeky freshman named Ted is in love with Sam. On the school bus ride home, he tries to hit on her, only to have her spurn him with some trash-talk before she gets off. At home, Sam has a whole new set of problems when she discovers that all four of her grandparents are staying at the Baker home during the wedding. One set of grandparents has brought along a bizarre Chinese foreign exchange student, Long Duk Dong. The grandparents force Sam to take him along to her schools senior dance that night and, to Sams amazement, it takes "The Donger" only five minutes to find an unlikely girlfriend—the tall, large-breasted jock, Marlene. As the freshmen hang out at the gym, Teds two best friends, Bryce and Cliff, watch as Ted crashes and burns after he once again hits on Sam and fails, with an upset Sam running off. Undeterred by this latest rejection, Ted accepts a bet from his friends that he can score with Sam. For proof, they need Ted to bring them her panties. While Jake and Caroline are slow dancing, he sees Teds interaction with Sam, so Jake asks him what he knows about her. Shocked that a senior is talking to him, Ted opens up a bit and boldly states that Ted hopes to take Sam home with him after the dance. Looking for some solace, Sam finds her way to the schools auto shop. Ted finds her and sees that she is still upset. She opens up to Ted, telling him how disappointed she was with her family forgetting her birthday. Sam also confesses her love for Jake. Upon hearing this, Ted tells her that Jake had been asking about her at the dance, and they agree that Sam should just go and talk to him. As she is leaving, Ted reveals the wager he made with his friends, so Sam agrees to let him borrow her panties. After Ted, Cliff, and Bryce have an impromptu peep show in the boys bathroom to show off the panties, they head over to Jakes house for the dances after-party. Almost immediately, the trio find themselves in an awkward situation, knocking over a huge beer can pyramid. With Jakes parents away for the weekend, his home becomes trashed by the dozens of students that crashed the party. Disgusted, he heads to his bedroom alone and tracks down Sams phone number after finding her picture in the school yearbook. He tries to call her, only to get tongue-tied when her grandparents answer instead. At nights end, Jake finds Ted trapped under a table and they begin to talk. Jake inquires further about Sam, and Ted explains the situation. Jake makes a deal with Ted: If Jake gets to return the panties to Sam, then Ted gets to drive a very drunk Caroline home in Jakes fathers Rolls Royce. The next morning, Jake goes to Sams house, only to have a hungover Donger miscommunicate that Sam was at church getting married. Jake then finds Caroline and Ted making out in the back of his dads banged-up Rolls. With this turn of events, Jake and Caroline mutually agree that it is time for them to break up and remain friends. Jake then drives to the church just in time to meet an incredulous Sam after her sisters wedding. The film concludes with Sam and Jake sharing a kiss over a birthday cake with 16 candles. Jake tells her to make a wish, but Sam says that her wish has already come true.
Sixteen Candles
1984