Todd Armstrong (Avalon) and Craig Gamble (Hickman) are California college undergraduates who unsuccessfully date co-eds Linda Hughes (Deborah Walley) and Barbara Norris (Yvonne Craig). Arrogant, handsome, athletic classmate Freddie (Aron Kincaid) has no such problems and chooses not to fight off all the women chasing after him. As president of the Ski Club, Freddie organizes a midterm vacation trip to ski country (in gorgeous Sawtooth National Forest) in Idaho. Although they know nothing about skiing, Todd and Craig follow Linda and Barbara on this bus trip, to try to learn "the secret of Freddies technique". Once at the rustic ski resort, Todd and Craig pose as frumpy, non-threatening, young English women, Jane and Nora, with terrible accents. When not interrupted by a mysterious ice skating, yodeling polar bear, or toying with psychologically-imbalanced and lederhosen-clad lodge manager Mr. Pevney (Robert Q. Lewis), they observe the girls in their group up close, to learn how to succeed with women, and figure out how they have gone wrong. To make Linda jealous, Todd attracts the attention of gorgeous, curvy Swedish ski instructor Nita (Bobbi Shaw) when hes dressed as himself. But Freddie becomes obsessed with Craig when Craig is dressed as a woman, not accustomed to girls who play "hard to get". Nita persuades Todd, over Freddies goading, to compete in a ski jump against Freddie. Todds jump, featuring absurdly comical special effects, forces Craig to shoot him down, resulting in a broken leg. Todd crawls through miles of deep snow, late at night, with his broken leg covered in a plaster cast, to Nitas house. Toting a bottle, he learns that Nita is not the exotic minx she pretends to be but aspires to be treated like an "American girl", that is, with much "talk" and little "action". Back at the lodge, Freddie, still obsessed with Craigs "female" character, Nora, tries to break down "Noras" room door. Stuck inside, Todd and Craig contemplate their next move as they escape through a window. Somehow they hail a taxi, and rack up an enormous fare to Santa Monica, California. Freddie follows on a moped piloted by fur-coated lodge manager Pevney. The rest of the group abruptly ends its spring break and follows behind on the bus. Todd and Linda, and Craig and Barbara arrive, with the rest of the group and Pevney, at Todds parents beachfront house. There the two couples share their true feelings and the boys surprise the girls with their ruse. Delusional Freddie swims into the Pacific Ocean convinced that he will catch his beloved brunette-wigged "Nora" who swam off ahead of him and is "somewhere near Guam".
Ski Party
1965