The story focuses on how Luther and Nora Krank try to avoid the frenzy traditionally experienced during the Christmas holiday. On the Sunday after Thanksgiving, the two take their daughter Blair to the airport, where she departs for a year-long Peace Corps assignment in a remote area of Peru. Nora bemoans the fact that the upcoming Christmas will be the first time they have been separated as a family, prompting her husband to calculate how much they spent celebrating the holidays the previous year. When he realizes they have little to show for the $6,100 they invested in decorations, gifts, and entertaining, he decides to skip all the hubbub at home and surprise Nora by booking a 10-day Caribbean cruise aboard the Island Princess. Nora at first is skeptical but accepts the idea on one condition - that they still donate $600 to the church and Childrens Hospital. At first Luther refuses, but when Nora refuses to consider the cruise otherwise, he agrees, and they begin to plan the trip. It doesnt take long for Nora to adjust to the idea of no Christmas shopping or Christmas tree, and not hosting their annual Christmas Eve party. To the couples amazement, their neighbors on Hemlock Street strongly object to their decision to boycott the holiday, because the Kranks decision not to decorate their home will jeopardize the blocks chances at winning the coveted prize for best decorated block in the neighborhood. Vic Frohmeyer, the unelected "top man" of the neighborhood, leads the townspeople in taunting Luther and Nora about Christmas celebrations by extending a perimeter of people around their lawn, asking a group of Christmas carolers to sing carols on the Kranks lawn, calling repeatedly to demand that they decorate their house for Christmas, and picketing with signs, et cetera. Luther stops the protest by freezing his sidewalk to prevent the carolers from singing there. The charities also are upset with the couple: the local Boy Scout troop is dismayed when the Kranks refuse to support them by purchasing a tree, the police are angered when they decline to buy a calendar, the fruitcake salesmen are shocked to learn the Kranks will not be buying a fruitcake this year, and the stationer is upset when he loses their annual order of engraved greeting cards. A newspaper even gets in the act by asking Luthers #1 rival, Walt Scheel, to film the Kranks house for the story. Luther and Nora find themselves the objects of derision and anxiously await their departure on Christmas Day. Without warning, Blair calls on Christmas Eve to announce shes at Miami International Airport, en route home with her Peruvian fiancé to surprise her parents. Shes anxious to introduce Enrique to her familys holiday traditions, and when she asks if theyre having their usual party that night, a panicking Nora says, "Yes", much to Luthers dismay. Comic chaos ensues as the couple finds themselves trying to decorate the house and coordinate a party with mere hours to spare before their daughter and future son-in-law arrive. Because the Boy Scouts have sold out of Christmas trees, Luther arranges to borrow the tree of a neighbor who is leaving for the holidays. He and Vic Frohmeyers son Spike try to transport it across the street, but the neighbors notice and mistakenly think Luther is stealing it, so they phone the police, resulting in Luthers barely escaping arrest. Luther attempts to set up a Frosty the Snowman decoration on his roof but fails, and after a series of events ends up hanging by his leg. Scheel reluctantly calls 9-1-1, and Luther is rescued. The Kranks then admit their dilemma and are rescued by everyone theyve alienated, with the neighbors pulling together and providing the Christmas celebration Blair is expecting. Blair calls before the party can be started, saying she has arrived. After successfully keeping Blair and Enrique busy so the party can get started, Luther decides to celebrate Christmas. He then gives the cruise package to Walt Scheel, who is having a very bad Christmas because his wife has an illness which has a 90% probability of being terminal.
Skipping Christmas
2004