In the fictional small town of Charlestown, the local mill is about to lay off 10,000 workers, indirectly threatening the existence of the towns minor league hockey team, the Charlestown Chiefs. After discovering that the team is to be folded, player-coach Reggie Dunlop lets the Hanson Brothers, the clubs recent acquisitions, loose on their opponents. The brothers actively violent and thuggish style of play excites the fans. Dunlop retools the team, using violence to draw big crowds. The teams new style produces unintended consequences that affect not only Dunlop, but the Chiefs star player, Ned Braden, along with the rest of the team. Dunlop exploits Bradens marital troubles in his efforts to get him to take part in the teams brawling, to no avail. Several games devolve into bench-clearing brawls, including one that takes place before the opening face-off, and another that brings the local police into the locker room to arrest the Hanson Brothers. Eventually Dunlop meets the owner of the team, and discovers his efforts to increase the teams popularity through violence have been for naught, as the owner plans to fold the team as a tax write-off. By the time Dunlop decides to abandon the new strategy of violence over skill, the Chiefs main rivals in Syracuse have already upped the ante by stocking their team full of goons in preparation for the leagues championship game. After a crushing defeat in the first period, the disgusted team owner tells them that he was actually hoping that the Chiefs habitual escapades would get them scouted and signed up by the National Hockey League. Upon hearing these news, Dunlop decides to have his team revert to their previous violent approach, much to the joy of the spectators. When Braden witnesses his wife cheering for the Chiefs, he adopts a similarly radical but still non-violent way of participation by performing a live striptease on the rink amidst rousing cheers. When the Syracuse teams captain protests against this daredevil demonstration and hits the refree for dismissing him, Syracuse is disqualified, granting the Chiefs the championship.
Slap Shot (film)
1977