In 1975, John Baker and his boyfriend Lenny take Johns children, Angela and Peter on a boating trip. While on a sailboat in the lake near Camp Arawak, the children prank their father by capsizing the boat. They attempt to swim ashore where Lenny is waiting for them. However, they swim into the path of a reckless motorboat towing a water skier and driven by one of the camp’s counselors, Mary Ann. John and Peter are struck and killed, as the skier, Delores, screams in horror for help. Eight years later in 1983, Angela, still traumatized by the accident, has been living with her eccentric aunt, Dr. Martha Thomas, and her cousin Ricky. Angela is sent to Camp Arawak for the first time, along with Ricky, who has attended the camp previously. Due to her introverted nature, Angela is bullied, mostly by her bunkmate Judy and their counselor, Meg. Angela’s other counselor Susie and the camp’s head counselor Ronnie, are sympathetic to her situation and do what they can to help her feel at home. The head cook, Artie, attempts to sexually assault Angela. Later, an unseen figure causes Artie to get severely scalded by the water he is boiling. Arties incident is deemed accidental by camp owner Mel Costic. At a social, campers Kenny and Mike mock Angela, prompting Ricky and his friend Paul to get into a fight with them. Afterwards, Paul befriends Angela. Later that night, Kenny is drowned, his death also ruled accidental at Mels insistence, even though Ronnie and the police officer, Frank, voice their skepticisms. Paul soon asks Angela to attend a movie with him. Later, campers Billy and Mike throw water balloons at Angela, and Billy is soon killed next, stung to death when he is trapped in a bathroom stall with a nest filled with bees. Mel starts thinking there is a killer in the camp. The relationship between Angela and Paul grows strained when Paul kisses her, causing her to have a flashback to her youth when she and her brother witnessed their father in bed with Lenny. Angela recoils from Paul and runs away. During a game of Capture the Flag, Paul is seduced by Judy, and the two are found kissing by Angela. Guilty, Paul later attempts to explain himself to Angela at the lake, but is shooed away by Judy and Meg, who throw Angela into the water. After being rescued by Ricky, Angela then has sand flung at her by small children. She is comforted by Ricky, who swears revenge on her aggressors. That night, Meg is stabbed to death in the shower while getting ready to meet with Mel. At the camp social, Paul apologizes to Angela again and she tells him to meet her at the water later on. Meanwhile, Mel finds Megs body and is convinced that Ricky is the killer, since Ricky had threatened most of the people killed so far, for bullying Angela. At the same time, the six children who threw sand at Angela, are camping in the woods with their counselor Eddie, when two of them ask him to take them back to the camp. He returns to find the four children hacked to death with his hatchet. Back at the camp, Judy is killed by being burned by a hot curling iron and being smothered to death with a pillow. The camp is thrown into a panic with all the deaths. Thinking Ricky is the killer, Mel beats him mercilessly, only to be shot in the throat with an arrow by the real killer. Frank the police officer is called and begins searching with the counselors for the missing campers. Paul is at the beach with Angela, who suggests they go skinny dipping. Frank discovers Ricky unconscious, but alive. Ronnie and Susie find Angela sitting on the beach and humming, with Paul appearing to be resting his head on her lap as she strokes his hair. They are shocked when Angela jumps up holding a hunting knife, dropping Paul’s severed head, and they discover that not only is she the killer, but that "Angela" is actually Peter, her thought-to-be-dead brother. It is revealed that the real Angela died in the accident and Peter survived. After Martha gained custody of him, she decided to raise Peter as the girl she always wanted, already having a son. Obviously shocked, Ronnie exclaims "How can it be? My God, she’s a boy!”, and the nude and blood-covered, "Angela" with male genitalia in full view, standing before the horrified Susie and Ronnie, while letting out an animalistic sound.
Sleepaway Camp
1983