In Las Vegas, vice LVMPD policemen Vincent Downs and Sean Cass rob a shipment of cocaine belonging to entrepreneur Stanley Rubino, who intended to sell it to mobster Rob Novak, the son of a powerful mob boss. They volunteer to investigate the robbery in order to cover up their involvement, clashing with Internal Affairs investigators Jennifer Bryant and Doug Dennison, who are suspicious of their involvement. It is also revealed that Vincent is estranged from his wife Dena, who is getting remarried, and has minimal involvement in the life of his 16-year-old son Thomas. While driving Thomas to his soccer game, Vincent is ambushed by Rubinos men, who stab him in the abdomen and kidnap his son, demanding the stolen cocaine back in exchange for Thomass life. Vincent retrieves the cocaine from Cass, places it in a duffel bag and leaves it in the ventilation shaft of one of the bathrooms in Rubinos casino, hoping he can negotiate his sons release before handing over his leverage. He is unknowingly followed by Bryant, who, now convinced he his a dirty cop, retrieves it and hides it in the womens locker room nearby. Upon learning that the drugs were moved, Vincent is forced to present Rubino with bags of sugar to ensure Thomass safety, but Novak uncovers his ruse and Thomas is recaptured by Rubinos men, while Vincent manages to escape. Meanwhile, after coming up empty while searching the casino for Downs, Dennison is convinced hes gotten away, and directs Bryant to go home and get some sleep. Bryant gives him the key to the womens locker with the cocaine, and heads for the exit. Vincent infiltrates the casino in his police uniform, but crosses paths with Bryant on her way out and chased into one of the hotel rooms. They fight, and he subdues her before revealing hes been undercover on behalf of Internal Affairs for the last two years to dismantle the crime ring within the police department. He knows his partner Cass is a drug-runner, knew details about a previous investigation by Bryant, and is now attempting to find the senior member of law enforcement that is covering everything up. A skeptical Bryant directs him to the locker room to retrieve the cocaine, but the drugs have recently been removed by Dennison. Dennison ambushes Vincent, but is ultimately overpowered and knocked unconscious. Meanwhile, Thomas escapes and steals Rubinos cellphone to contact Vincent, but is quietly being followed by Rubino and his men who allow it all to happen in an attempt to lure Vincent into a trap. Elsewhere, Dena finds out Vincent and Thomas are in danger and heads to the casino. Cass arrives and confronts Vincent about his Internal Affairs involvement, but then saves Vincent from one of Novaks men. He is shot in the process and presumed dead. Going through Cass phone, Vincent finds out Dennison is the mole in the force, is on Novaks payroll, and informed Cass that Vincent was Internal Affairs and needed to be killed. Bryant and Dennison later find a severely injured Cass in the garage. While Bryant checks the vitals of Novaks man, Dennison privately questions Cass on whether Vincent is aware of his involvement and finishes him off when Cass refuses to answer. Vincent and Thomas reunite just as Novak begins shooting up the casino and escape to the parking garage. Meanwhile, Bryant arrests Rubino. Vincent and Thomas attempt to escape in a stolen car, but are ambushed by Novak and his men, leading to a violent shootout. Dena arrives and kills one of Novaks men before Novak corners them. He shoots Vincent in the chest, but Vincent survives and fatally shoots Novak. Vincent then contacts Bryant and alerts her of Dennisons corruption. Realizing hes been exposed, Dennison draws his gun, and shoots Bryant and Rubino and forces the police cruiser theyre in to crash. Dennison crawls out of the wreckage claiming Rubino killed Bryant and the driver with a stolen gun before being shot by Dennison, but Bryant has managed to survive and exposes Dennison, who is arrested by the arriving policemen. Vincent and Bryant are taken to the same hospital, where they make amends and congratulate each other on the job. Meanwhile, a corrupt DEA Agent, seen earlier in the film, contacts Novaks father and informs him theres been a problem.
Sleepless (2017 film)
2017