How does a 12-year-old girl brought up in such conditions find a better life? That is a question Tara Reedy (AnnaSophia Robb) hardly dares to ask. As the film begins she and her reckless, slatternly mother, Joleen (Charlize Theron), have been evicted from the house where they were staying with Joleen’s latest boyfriend, who was busted for growing marijuana. Tara has no choice but to trail along glumly as Joleen is reduced to begging her meek, ne’er-do-well younger brother, James (Nick Stahl), to take them in. No sooner do they move into James’s dingy apartment than Joleen runs off with a truck driver, leaving Tara with her uncle, who works on a road-building crew. After missing one too many days on the job, he is fired. He ends up crashing in the basement of his married best friend, Randall (Woody Harrelson). It isn’t long before Tara lands in a foster home. In a last-ditch effort to put down roots, James snatches Tara from foster care, packs them into a car and drives to the childhood home he and Joleen fled many years earlier. The scenes of James and Tara, who agree to pose as father and daughter, developing a familial bond while on the road give the movie its only glimmer of sweetness. Once they arrive at the Reedy homestead — a run-down cattle and horse farm that is an American gothic house of horrors — they are immediately put to work as unpaid slave labor by the monstrous paterfamilias, Mr. Reedy (Dennis Hopper). Mr. Reedy treats Tara with contempt, hitting her across the face for her incompetencies at farming. Furious but calm, James tries to stand up to his father, but is quickly rebuked and threatened with a shovel. After silencing his son, Mr. Reedy continues to abuse Tara for no other reason other than he attempts to possibly break her spirit. Now having lost complete control of his emotions, James picks up the shovel and beats his father to death, bringing an end to the years of abuse he and Joleen suffered at their fathers hands. James then takes Tara to Westmoreland where Joleen is waiting at the police station. He leaves Tara with Joleen as the police rush out to arrest him, but he is already gone.
Sleepwalking (film)
2008