Spike has bathed Tyke to make sure he is nice and clean, but is horrified when through the constant chases of Tom and Jerry, Tyke ends up getting dirty by falling into a mud puddle. Spike is extremely angry at Tom and scolds him that Tyke is dirty, and orders Tom to clean him up. Tom quickly rushes off with the muddy pup and returns almost instantly with Tyke cleaned up. Spike issues Tom an ultimatum: the cat must keep Tyke clean before Spike comes back, or Spike will make him suffer the consequences by tearing him limb after limb ("Understand?"). Tom grudgingly agrees to look after the pup and ensure that the pup stays clean until Spike returns, except for Jerry, who of course is being ready to (as always) sabotage this. As Tom sits down on the same wooden platform that Tyke is lying on, one of the wooden planks catapults Tyke into the air, and Tom narrowly saves Tyke from falling into the same muddy puddle. Tom overhears Jerrys laughter and chases after him. Jerry quickly stops the cat, and challenges him to a game of tic-tac-toe on Tykes back. Tom wins and resumes chasing Jerry, before suddenly realizing what the mouse just made him do, and promptly returns to Tyke to rub off his pencil marks. Jerry hurls a tomato at Tom, but Tom quickly ducks so that it avoids him. Realizing that it will hit Tyke instead he yelps with fear and Tom rushes back and stands directly in front of the pup so that the tomato does hit him after all. The chase resumes until Tyke ends up with a jar of ink spilled on him. Tom panics after seeing Tyke covered in ink and attempts to rub the ink off, but to no avail. Tom grabs some paint tins, painting Tyke first white, then gray, but Jerry pushes the paint containers so that Tom ends up dipping his paintbrush into a variety of different colors. Tyke has now been painted a multi-colored mess of reds, blues, greens and yellows. Horrified, Tom grabs a hose so that he can wash the paint off with water, but Jerry connects the other end of the hosepipe to a large container of tar. Out of the hosepipe comes thick, black, sticky tar that leaves Tyke a dirty mess. Tom sees that Spike is approaching, and realizes he must act quickly. Tom spots a pillow hanging on a washing line, and stuffs Tyke into it and takes him out, which leaves Tyke covered in feathers. He then places a red glove on Tykes head and a clothes peg on his mouth, so that Tyke crudely resembles a chicken of sorts. Spike is surprisingly fooled and walks off. However, Tyke removes the peg from his mouth and bites Toms tail. Tom hysterically screams in pain and alerts Spike, causing him to turn and investigate. Tom rushes into the house and hides in the laundry room, putting Tyke inside the washing machine. But Tom is too late to do anything; just as he is pouring some soap flakes into the washing machine, Spike arrives rattily and Tom takes Tyke out of the washing machine. Catching on to what had happened to Tyke (after Tyke lets out a loud sneeze due to the soap flakes), Spike angrily dumps the entire box of soap flakes over Toms head and then pushes a soap bar into his mouth, before shoving Tom in the washing machine, slamming its door on him and turning it on. Now, Tom has to take a shower around the washing machine as Spike and Tyke together look on. Both of them are joined by Jerry, who waves at the cat while the cartoon closes.
Slicked-up Pup
1951