Courtney Bates, who survived the events of the first film as an adolescent, is now a senior in high school who is plagued by night terrors stemming from the event. In her nightmares, she is recurrently confronted by the killer, now reincarnated as a greaser armed with a guitar fashioned with a massive drill bit on the neck. At school, Courtney takes a liking to her classmate, Matt, and invites him to spend her birthday weekend with her and her friends, Amy, Sheila, and Sally. They plan to stay at a condominium in an undeveloped complex outside town where the girls, who have their own band, can practice music. Upon arriving, the girls classmates Jeff and T.J. arrive at the house and spy on the girls as they have a pillow fight before entering the house through an unlocked door and frightening them. That night, Courtney has a dream in which the killer murders Valerie while she sleeps beside her. In the morning, she inexplicably awakens on the kitchen floor. Throughout the day, her visions grow increasingly violent, but she is comforted when Matt arrives at the condominium. After Courtney has a grotesque vision of Sallys head bursting open, Sally disappears and the group are unable to find her. Matt calls the police, who are angry when Sally returns to the house, having left to go to the store. The group leave to get dinner in town, leaving Courtney and Matt alone. Trying to comfort her, Matt surprises Courtney with a birthday cake, and the two begin to have sex, but are interrupted by the killer, who impales Matt through the chest with his drill. He chases her downstairs, where he confronts the group who have just returned. They attempt to dial 911, but the phone is destroyed when the killer impales Sally with the drill, which breaches the wall and shatters the wall receiver. The group disperses in the chaos, with Sheila fleeing alongside T.J., whose leg has been injured. Courtney, Amy, and Jeff leave in his car, but Jeff is impaled by the killer hiding in the backseat. Courtney and Amy return to the house, barricading themselves in a bedroom. They attempt to call police, but the operator believes it to be a prank based on the earlier house call. Meanwhile, Sheila and T.J. run to a nearby house for help, but are confronted by the killer, who eviscerates T.J. Sheila manages to return to the condominium and stumbles upstairs. The killer appears downstairs, where he dances and sings an original musical number which echoes throughout the house. He ascends the stairs and murders Sheila before Courtney and Amy are able to unblock the bedroom door. Courtney and Amy escape out the window, and the killer pursues them through a construction site, where Amy falls to her death from an upper floor of the building. Courtney discovers a propane tank, which she uses to light the killer on fire. Police arrive in the morning, and load Amys corpse onto a stretcher. When Courtney attempts to say goodbye, Amy suddenly comes to life, cackling in the killers voice. Courtney awakens next to Matt, realizing the events prior have been a nightmare. She and Matt begin to kiss, but he suddenly morphs into the killer. She again awakens from the dream-within-a-dream, this time inside a psychiatric ward; as she lies in bed, a drill bursts through the floor.
Slumber Party Massacre II
1987