While Tom is chasing after Jerry around outside their house, he spots a beautiful female cat (presumably Toodles Galore) and then falls in love with her. The cat giggles. He runs up to her, imitating a dog expressing fondness. Jerry, frustrated, can only stand there and look on. Then the green devil from Springtime for Thomas appears, presumably as Jerrys "evil nature" (although too large to perch on his shoulder as conscience and anti-conscience characters customarily do). He convinces Jerry that every time Tom falls in love, it means trouble for Jerry. The devil recalls the time when Tom met a female cat on the beach, leading to a flashback of 1947s Salt Water Tabby, where Jerrys interference embarrassed Tom, and led to Tom shooting Jerry into the sea through a fizzy cola bottle. The devil then reminds Jerry of the time when Tom invited a girlfriend of his over for a meal in 1945s The Mouse Comes to Dinner, where Jerry was forced to serve the food and blow Toms soup. The frustrated mouse spit Toms soup in his face, which caused Tom to place the spoon that Jerry was standing on directly above a candle flame, which burned Jerrys bottom and feet, launching the mouse into a block of butter to cool off ("Hehehe! That was a hot one!"). After that, Jerrys reminded of the time Tom fell in love with a cowgirl in 1950s Texas Tom (though the devil admittedly says "Not that anything was wrong with her"). Tom confidently strode up to the cat and smoked a roll-up cigarette (with Jerrys "help"), which blew out the word "Howdy" in smoke. Back in the garden, the devil and Jerry realize Toms going to serenade his new girlfriend. The devil asks Jerry if he can take that again after what happened in 1946s Solid Serenade, when Tom kept disturbing Jerry by serenading another girl. The devil sends Jerry on his way to stir up trouble armed with a hatpin, a mini TNT and some matches. Jerry marches towards Tom and the beautiful female cat. While he is marching, he suddenly spots a pretty female mouse and soon becomes smitten with love for her, imitating a dog expressing fondness after she giggles. The devil, frustrated, laments that whenever a pretty lady comes into his life, it means trouble for him. Just then, he suddenly spots a beautiful female devil, quickly changes his mind and immediately falls in love with her, imitating a dog expressing fondness as she giggles.
Smitten Kitten
1952