Recently fired from her job and dumped by her rock musician boyfriend, Michael, who broke up with her because he felt like she was going nowhere with her life, Emily Middleton is determined to enjoy a previously planned nonrefundable trip to Ecuador. Learning of her relationship status from social media, her mother, Linda, tells her to go home in order to move on, where she reunites with her agoraphobic brother, Jeffrey. Initially refusing, Linda agrees to go on the trip with her daughter. In Ecuador, after they check into the upscale hotel, Emily meets a handsome man named James at the hotel bar, and they begin a relationship. After one night of drinking and dancing with James, Emily and her mother take a sightseeing day trip with him. During their ride, masked men in a white van ram James Jeep and abduct Emily and Linda. James escapes, but Linda suspects he was in on the kidnapping plot from the start. Emily awakens inside a cell and begins to panic, while Linda calms herself by reading mens magazines. The leader, Hector Morgado, contacts Jeffrey and demands $100,000 in ransom money. Morgado then has his nephew take both women away from the kidnappers hideout and to another location. They manage to escape from their captors car and stow away into a passing truck, but not before Emily kills the leaders nephew by pounding his head with a shovel. The trucks driver then stops his truck and leaves them both in the middle of the jungle. They find a phone at a nearby bar, where they call the U.S. State Department officer Morgan Russell, saying that they are in peril, after escaping from the kidnappers and Morgan advises them to go to the US Embassy in Bogota, Colombia. They meet a rugged-looking American named Roger Simmons, dressed like Indiana Jones. He agrees to help them find the consulate. After the three share a meal, Morgado and his men track them down. Morgado is about to kill them both as revenge for his only nephews death, but Linda distracts him while Emily retrieves a nearby spear gun with which to threaten him. As she retrieves it, she accidentally fires it, killing Morgados only son. They manage to escape with Simmons onto a boat. Thats where they learn he is not an experienced outdoorsman, but a Trader Joes manager who recently found out he has a month to live due to a cancer diagnosis. His dream is to live like an adventurer. Soon, however, they are forced off the boat when the captain detects another boat nearby that is looking for the two women. Meanwhile, Jeffrey, learning that his mother and sister have been kidnapped, calls Morgan at the State Department, saying he will join forces with the agents in order to find his mother and sister. Morgan reluctantly agrees. In Colombia, Emily, Linda, and Simmons hike through the jungle until Simmons falls to his death from a cliff. Later, Emily passes out from the effects of a tapeworm infestation. After a local village doctor removes the tapeworm from her body, Morgado and his men track them down again. They find Simmons Indiana-Jones style hat in the jungle, with a tag indicating it was a recent purchase from J.C. Penneys. They spot a zip line and decide to use it to escape. Unfortunately, the zip line is good for only one person. Linda forces Emily to leave her behind and is recaptured. Emily safely arrives at the US Consulate. Determined to find her mother, she seeks help from two feisty American women veterans, Ruth and Barb, whom Emily met at the resort in Ecuador. Ruth and Barb take her to James, who was conspiring with Morgado, to the apartment where he is being interrogated for the kidnappers location. With the ladies help, Emily rescues her mother at the kidnappers apartment. They try to escape in another truck, but Morgado intercepts them. As he is about to kill Emily, Linda blows her dog whistle (which was supposed to serve as a rape whistle), summoning a dog that attacks Morgado. U.S. State Department agents arrive to arrest Morgado, and Jeffrey reunites with his mother and sister. One year later, Emily and Linda take another trip to Kuala Lumpur, at which point Emily meets another man, who offers her a drink. Emily refuses, and she and Linda proceed to dance.
Snatched (2017 film)
2017