Master Gunnery Sergeant Thomas Beckett (Berenger), Force Reconnaissance Marine, an experienced sniper, and his spotter, Cpl. Papich (Aden Young), are on a mission to assassinate a Panamanian rebel leader in the jungle. Because they are extracted in daylight instead of at night, Papich is killed by a sniper. Beckett runs back under fire to carry Papichs body to the helicopter. Later, Beckett is paired up with an inexperienced civilian, Richard Miller (Zane), to eliminate a rebel general financed by a Colombian drug lord. Miller is a SWAT team sharpshooter, with no combat experience or confirmed kills to his name. While on the way to the staging area, Millers helicopter is attacked by a guerrilla, and several members of the crew are killed. Miller is unable to take out the attacker; instead, the choppers dying gunner makes the kill, but the co-pilot believes Miller made the crucial shot, earning Miller a false reputation. On the mission, Beckett insists on deviating from the plan that Miller was given. This, together with the fact that Miller has no experience or aptitude for jungle operations, sparks friction between the two. Early on, they encounter a group of Indians, who agree to lead them past the rebel guerrillas, in return for a favor: they must agree to eliminate El Cirujano ("The Surgeon"), an ex-CIA agent and expert in torture who has been aiding the rebels. Beckett agrees to do so. Uncertain of Millers reliability and skeptical about his "kill" while aboard the helicopter, he tells Miller to kill El Cirujano in order to prove himself. However, when the time comes, Miller fails again by first firing a "warning shot," followed by a shot at Cirujanos head. Cirujano is able to dodge the head shot by ducking under it into the river in which he has been swimming. In the ensuing firefight with the alarmed guerrillas, one of the Indians is killed. Although the Indians do not directly blame either Beckett or Miller, they withdraw further help. En route to the target, they realize they are being followed. They head to a village to contact their informant, a priest, only to find that he has been tortured and murdered by Alvarezs men well before they arrived. Beckett speculates out loud that it is the work of El Cirujano, calling into question Millers credibility. That night, Beckett marks their track to bait the follower - the sniper that killed Papich - into a trap and uses Miller as bait to pull the sniper out of hiding to take him out. The two men finally reach the generals hacienda. While waiting for their targets to emerge, they find Cirujano to be alive after all. Miller isnt hidden very well, and is spotted by one of the guards trying to sneak up on Miller. Beckett kills Millers attacker while Miller takes out the drug lord. Having had to save Millers life instead of killing the general, Beckett insists on going back to take out the general. Millers refusal leads to an exchange of fire between Beckett and Miller. Miller ceases when running out of ammunition and breaks down mentally afterward. As rebels close in on the two, Beckett attempts to provide cover fire for Miller. Seeing himself outnumbered, he surrenders to rebels and knowing that Miller is watching, he stealthily ejects a round from the chamber of his rifle while holding it up, then drops the bullet on the ground; Miller picks it after Beckett is taken away. With nighttime approaching, Miller goes to the extraction site, but instead of boarding the helicopter, he heads to the base camp, where he kills the general with his knife. He finds Beckett being tortured by El Cirujano, who has cut off the trigger finger of Becketts right hand. Beckett spots Miller in the distance and uses a ploy to both distract Cirujano and mouth Miller instruction to kill both of them with one shot. Instead, Miller sticks to "one shot, one kill" and shoots Cirujano in the head. The two run to the helicopter for extraction, and Beckett once again saves Millers life: using his left hand, he shoots an ambushing sniper. The final scene shows Beckett and Miller on the way back home.
Sniper (1993 film)
1993