The film opens with a handsome young prince traveling in the woods when he stumbles upon a dead Snow White lying in a glass coffin. To find the answer, the prince visits the seven dwarfs, who tell the Prince of Snow Whites story through flashback. A courageous King and his fair Queen rule their kingdom well. One winters day while sewing with her maids, the Queen accidentally pricks her finger with her needle, and a single drop of blood falls on the snow outside her windowsill. The King declares they will have a child with hair as black as ebony, cheeks as red as blood, and skin as white as snow. The Good Queen eventually gives birth to a daughter, whom she names Snow White, but dies shortly after her child is born. When Snow White (Nicola Stapleton) has grown into a kind child, her father marries again. However, the new queen (Diana Rigg) is evil and vain and jealous of Snow White, fearing her beauty could surpass her own, so the Evil Queen hires her assassin, a huntsman (Amnon Meskin) to take Snow White into the forest and kill her. During a hunting trip, the huntsman succeeds in taking Snow White away from her father, but Snow White avoids death (even though she realizes her punishment of illegally surpassing her stepmother is at hand), and hides herself into the forest where she finds a cottage belonging to seven kindly dwarfs - Iddy, Biddy, Kiddy, Diddy, Fiddy, Giddy and Liddy - who allow her to stay with them. The King is heartbroken when he is told that Snow White had been eaten by wild animals, and later he is killed in battle. Ten years later, Snow White (Sarah Patterson) grows into a beautiful young woman. When the Evil Queen asks her magic mirror "who is the fairest one of all", she learns that Snow White is still alive since ten years. The Evil Queen then cooks up three plots to eliminate Snow White. First, she disguises herself as a gypsy woman and laces up Snow White in a tight bodice, only for the dwarfs to cut the lace with scissors. Next, she disguises herself as an Asian comb seller and gives Snow White a poisoned comb, only for the dwarfs to remove the comb from her hair. Finally, the Evil Queen disguises herself as an old peddler woman and offers Snow White a poisoned apple. Snow White resists at first, but relents when the Evil Queen cuts the apple in half so they may share it. Snow White eats the poisoned half of the apple and collapses. The dwarfs are unable to revive her, and place her inside a glass coffin. The film returns to the present, where the dwarfs allow the Prince to take Snow White to a proper resting place. When Snow White is being transported, the coffin accidentally falls off the wagon, causing the piece of poisoned apple to dislodge from her throat, and Snow White awakens. At first, the Prince was shocked by this accident, but he is enchanted that Snow White magically revived herself and asks her to marry him, and she accepts. Invitations to the wedding are sent throughout the land, and the Evil Queen receives one as well, leaving the magic mirror into concluding that the Princes bride is the fairest in the land. The Evil Queen is enraged and smashes her mirror, which causes her to age rapidly. She rushes to the church in time to see that the bride is Snow White, and then disintegrates into ashes before heading back to the carriage. Snow White and the Prince are married and live happily ever after.
Snow White (1987 film)
1987