The story begins in 1937 Austria, before the German occupation which would arrive the following year. Josef Steiner (Fredric March) is a middle-aged German veteran who has been an ideological opponent to the Nazi regime from its inception and already escaped from two years in a concentration camp. Hes in hiding in a dodgy Austrian boarding house with young Ludwig Kern (Glenn Ford in an early performance), a bewildered 19-year-old German from a prosperous family that was found to have Jewish forebears when the Nazis came to power and now "half-Aryan," are abruptly deprived of their German citizenship and passports, rendered stateless and ordered to leave the country. The two men are soon picked up and hounded by Austrian officials eager to deport them. Their friendship begins as they share a jail cell with two other hapless exiles (Leonid Kinskey as "The Chicken" and Alexander Granach as "The Pole") and one professional gambler, proud of his "full rights of citizenship". Steiner studies the gamblers card tricks and also befriends the miserable Ludwig. Deported together, they part at the border, Ludwig to search for his parents in Prague, Steiner to double back and live by his wits in Austria. The characters struggle to find normalcy in an increasingly nightmarish Europe through which they must constantly move. Fredric Marchs character pines for the wife hes left behind (Frances Dee in a nearly wordless performance) whom his politics have endangered. At one point he dresses as a laborer and follows her in a crowded marketplace, neither of them daring to look at one another, as he begs her to divorce him, which she never does. Erich Von Stroheim has a brief role as a German secret agent who attempts to lure Steiner with a new German passport if he informs on his political friends back in Germany. In Prague, Ludwig literally stumbles on lovely Jewish exile Ruth Holland (Margaret Sullavan) in a cheap boarding house. He recognizes her as a fellow fugitive, but Ruth is hesitant to enter into a new relationship. In flashback, we see her German fiance insult and abandon her when her Jewish identity threatens his career, not caring that it has also forced her to leave university and lose her chemistry degree. The lovestruck Ludwig follows Ruth to Vienna, where she has a chance to resume her chemistry studies with a former professor who also left Germany. While waiting to hear from her, Ludwig visits Steiner, now working as a carnival barker, who in turn hooks him up with a dicey carnival booth job. Ruth quickly loses her new position because she has no passport and finally seeks out Ludwig, who has been writing her at General Delivery. Thrilled to see Ruth again, Ludwig gets beaten up in front of her by a suspicious customer at his booth who has demanded to see his papers, then again by the police. He lands in a Viennese jail with the very same lowlifes who were there at the films start. Seeing him bloodied, they teach him how to fight and throw a punch. A beautiful carnie with a crush on Steiner, Lilo (Anna Sten), tells Ludwig Ruth has been deported to Zurich, so Ludwig heads to Switzerland upon his release and finds Ruth staying in the home of a wealthy schoolfriend. When he arrives looking like a bum, they borrow her hosts elegant clothes, and have a romantic dinner. Ludwig begins to hope for a better future and Ruth begs him to take her to Paris with him, his next plan for survival - they agree to go together. Newsreel footage breaks in of the 1938 Anschlusss cheering throngs welcoming the Nazi takeover of Austria. Steiner watches in horror. No longer safe in Vienna, he bids his carnival friends goodbye and, chased by dogs at the border, plunges into a river to escape. Meanwhile, Ruth and Ludwig hike day and night through the Alps to get to the French border. When a Swiss Nazi spy turns in Ludwig, the local gendarme allows him to escape and a friendly doctor visits ailing Ruth in their hideout and orders her to the hospital. Ludwig is once again thrown into jail when he ventures to stand outside her hospital window, but hes let out, she recovers and they head for France. In Paris, they run into Ruths former professor, himself now an exile, who tells them Paris is flooded with Austrian refugees from the Anschluss and without work permits, they wont find jobs. Steiner reappears and they all celebrate their reunion with their favorite lowlifes, Chicken and Pole, now in Paris too. At this festive occasion, Ludwig learns from Ruths slightly tipsy professor that a French professor at the university, Durand, has always been in love with Ruth and would marry her in a moment, thus solving her intractable passport problem. Ludwig realizes this is too good a chance for the stateless Ruth to pass up, but they quarrel when she stubbornly refuses "because I love you, you idiot!" Construction work shows up for the exiles "no questions asked". The foreman has a letter for Steiner, who learns that his wife is in the hospital with only a few days to live. Over Ludwigs objections, Steiner uses his fake Austrian passport to return to see her one last time. "If I dont see her, Ill simply break," he tells worried Ludwig. As soon as Steiner heads to Germany, Ludwig is caught at the construction site and sent to a prison on the border, from where he will once again be deported. He writes Ruth to marry Durand so that shell be cared for. Ruth refuses and rushes off with an idea of how to save him - by threatening to marry Durand and bring scandal down on his family unless his influential uncle helps get Ludwig freed. Over the border, Steiner is instantly picked up by the Gestapo and interrogated by Von Stroheims Nazi agent. Steiner promises to name names if hes only allowed to see his wife. He says goodbye at her deathbed, then leaps to his own death rather than informing on his friends. Steiner has left the young couple what money he had and now they each have passports. Ludwig marvels that he finally possesses the piece of paper that will allow him and Ruth to live like normal people. They mourn Steiners sacrifice on the train that is taking them to freedom.
So Ends Our Night
1941