Farmers daughter Jane Budden (Myrna Loy) sells her entire pig herd and moves to Brooklyn to find a husband. On the way to the home of her cousin, Garnet Allison (Molly Lamont), Jane runs into Hiram Maxim (Don Ameche), an eccentric inventor who is her cousins neighbor. Jane scandalizes local society by saying she will not marry for love; she merely wants a rich husband who can give her the life of ease and culture she has long dreamed of. Amused by Janes announcement, Hiram visits Jane and tells her she can forget about marrying him. Jane is attracted to Hiram, but angered at his effrontery. She is amused when one of Hirams inventions turns out badly and Hiram is publicly humiliated. Jane goes to a dance, where Hiram makes negative comments on each of her suitors, especially rich real estate developer and attorney Josephus Ford (Richard Gaines). Jane agrees to marry Josephus. Hiram gate crashes Janes engagement party, where Jane is dismayed to learn that Josephus wants her to sign a prenuptial agreement and believes Jane should be frugal, silent, and matronly. When Jane learns that Josephus has just invested in a pork-packing plant, she breaks her engagement, rushes to Hirams home, and proposes to him herself. Hiram and Jane marry. Even though Hirams inventions are only marginally profitable, the couple is happy. Jane gives birth to a son, Percy (Bobby Driscoll), whom Hiram raises in an unusual, freestyle manner to encourage his creativity and confidence. With Janes constant encouragement, Hiram finally begins inventing things which meet practical needs and bring in a sizable income. A local organization decides to honor Hiram for his inventions by asking him to sit for a portrait. Hiram refuses. Jane, pregnant with a second child, hires the eccentric artist Magel (Rhys Williams) to paint the portrait anyway. Shortly thereafter, Percy tries to be amusing by adorning his dog Skipper with a baby bonnet, which Jane had received as a gift for the expected new arrival. When Percy and his mother chase the dog to retrieve the bonnet, Jane moves a piece of furniture and jeopardizes her pregnancy. Her physician fears she may lose the baby and her life, and Percy feels extremely guilty, thinking he has caused his mother to nearly die. Jane does recover and gives birth to a healthy son. An ecstatic Hiram has the entire family sit for Magel and a portrait.
So Goes My Love
1946