In the backyard of Toms love interest, Toodles Galore, is a doghouse labeled "Killer" with (Spike) inside. Tom pokes his head over the wall and spots Toodles in the window. Tom has brought a string instrument (which appears to be a hybrid of a double bass and a cello). He leaps over the fence and neutralizes Spike by hitting him on the head with a mallet and tying him up. Tom then uses his instrument like a pogo stick to jump his way over to the window, stopping to taunt Spike along the way. Tom performs "Is You Is or Is You Aint My Baby"; the sound waves from the instrument shake Jerrys mousehole, causing Jerry to fall out of bed and vibrate his way under a table, meanwhile a flower pot is vibrated across the table directly above Jerrys head and falls on him when both reach the edge of the table. Having had enough, the mouse pokes his head out of a mail slot and spots Tom before the vibration causes the match propping the slot open to break in half and the slot closes on Jerrys head. Jerry decides to get revenge by stuffing an iron into a pie which he then hurls at Tom through an open window; the cat is angered, but continues with a few more bars. Seconds later, he is hit in the face again – this time with a pie covered in whipped cream. Spotting Jerry, Tom chases him through the house. Both animals dive off an ironing board; with Jerry ahead of Tom, Jerry drains the kitchen sink he landed in, leaving Tom to crash into the crockery. Tom follows Jerry through the open window, but Jerry pulls the window stop out of the window, which falls on Toms neck, and Tom shrieks in pain. Jerry then runs out and unties Spike, who lets out a loud bull roar (similar to the roar in Puttin on the Dog). Spike swaps his regular teeth for larger ones, blows off some pent-up steam, and goes after Tom. Tom ducks as Spikes teeth come at him, which instead get lodged in a tree trunk. Tom then barely avoids getting his tail bitten and hides behind a wall, holding a brick up ready to attack. Spike sees the brick and investigates, but gets knocked on the head with it. Jerry revives Spike by hitting him with a wooden plank. After slamming Spike, Spike leaps high in the air screaming in pain just as Jerry hands off the board to Tom, framing the cat. Knowing he is in trouble, Tom tricks Spike into believing the board is a bone by playing "fetch". Spike obliges and fetches but realises hes been tricked. Tom and Spike then begin a back and forth chase with Toodles Galore watching on. Tom stops periodically to kiss the cat. Catching on to this habit, Spike substitutes himself on the third pass, and gets wooed in a Charles Boyer voice (his lines recycled from The Zoot Cat). Tom stops his speech abruptly when he sees the female cat and, realizing his mistake, drops Spike onto the ground. Tom hides from Spikes rampage until Jerry walks around the corner; he chases Jerry into Spikes house, closing the door with a murderous Count Dracula laugh,. A second later, the door opens and Jerry emerges with Spike helping him out of the doghouse. Spike laughs even more evilly as he withdraws inside. The entire dog house thrashes about as Spike beats up Tom, who attempts to flee only to be snatched by Spike and forced to write his last will before being beaten up a second time. In the end, Tom becomes part of his instrument in place of the strings with Spike strumming the cats tail while Jerry bows a dramatic riff on Toms whiskers and Toodles watches.
Solid Serenade
1946