The economic stability of Waconda, Oregon, is threatened when the local logging union calls a strike against a large lumber conglomerate. When independent logger Hank Stamper and his father Henry are urged to support the strikers, they refuse, and the townspeople consider them traitors. All of the Stampers live in one compound, including Henrys good-natured nephew Joe Ben. Hank struggles to keep the small family business alive and consequently widens the rift between himself and his complacent wife Viv, who wants him to put an end to the territorial struggle but is resigned to his doing things as he sees fit. Also complicating matters is Leland Stamper, Henrys youngest son and Hanks half-brother, who returns home with a college education and experience in urban living. A heavy drinker, Lee eventually reveals he attempted suicide after his mother killed herself and has been suffering from deep depression ever since. He urges the neglected Viv to leave. Despite the fact that he is uncomfortable living with a family he barely knows, Lee joins forces with them when they are forced to battle both the locals, who have burned their equipment, and the elements, which threaten their efforts to transport their logs downriver. After aiding their adversaries when their lives are in peril, the Stampers have two calamities at once, a falling tree that severs Henrys arm, and a trunk that crushes Joe Ben in shallow water. Lee takes his father to the hospital, while Joe Ben laughs at his predicament until the tree trunk rolls atop him, pinning him down. Hanks desperate attempt to save Joe Ben fails. At the hospital, Henry dies after finally expressing his approval of Lee, while Hank returns home to find Viv has left him. Lining up by the riverbank, the Stampers rivals look forward to seeing them fail to deliver their logs, but Hank and Lee team up to successfully transport them. Henrys severed arm is attached to the boat, giving the middle finger to all who watch.
Sometimes a Great Notion (1971 film)
1971