Dave Hirsh (Frank Sinatra) is a cynical Army veteran who winds up in his hometown of Parkman after being put on a bus in Chicago while intoxicated. Ginny Moorehead (Shirley MacLaine), a woman of seemingly loose morals and poor education, was invited by Dave in his drunken state to accompany him to Parkman. When Dave sobers up, he realizes it was a mistake, and gives her money to return to Chicago. However, she decides to stay because she has fallen in love with Dave and is also trying to escape a violent boyfriend back in Chicago. Dave left Parkman 16 years before and had a career as a writer, publishing two books. He did not visit or stay in touch with his older brother, Frank (Arthur Kennedy), because he is still embittered about how Frank and his wife Agnes (Leora Dana) treated him when he was a child. Frank, who was newly married to the well-off Agnes, had placed him in a charity boarding school rather than take Dave to live in his home. Frank has since inherited a jewelry business from Agnes father, sits on the board of a local bank, and is active in civic affairs. Frank and Agnes are very concerned about their social status and reputation in the town, which is threatened when Dave returns without letting them know and then deposits a large sum of his gambling winnings in the bank that competes with Franks bank. Frank attempts to make amends with Dave in order to get him to move the bank deposit. Agnes wants nothing to do with Dave, but is forced to welcome him after two of her wealthy social acquaintances, Professor French (Larry Gates) and his daughter Gwen (Martha Hyer), a schoolteacher, ask to meet Dave because they admire his books. When Dave meets Gwen, he immediately falls in love with her. She is attracted to him as well, but is afraid of the passionate feelings he arouses in her and of his lifestyle. Each time Gwen rejects him, he ends up back with Ginny, even though her lack of intelligence frustrates him and she is nothing like Gwen. Dave has also befriended a hard-partying but good-hearted gambler, Bama Dillert (Dean Martin), and the two get into trouble when Ginnys ex-boyfriend, a gangster named Ray, comes to town stalking her. Frank is upset about the bad reflection on him from Daves lifestyle. However, Dave is shown to be a good man despite his notorious reputation when he treats Ginny with kindness and takes a fatherly interest in his niece, Franks daughter Dawn (Betty Lou Keim), who becomes upset and tries to run away when she sees her father in a lovers lane with his secretary. Daves new story that he wrote with Gwens encouragement is published in The Atlantic magazine, and Gwen confesses her love to him by telephone while he is on a gambling trip out of town with Bama and Ginny. Gwens phone call leads the gamblers to think Dave is cheating at cards, triggering a fight in which Bama is stabbed. Ginny later visits Gwen at her school to ask if Gwen and Dave are in a relationship and confess her own love for Dave. Gwen is horrified to discover Dave has been seeing Ginny, assures Ginny that there is nothing between her and Dave, and then cuts Dave off. Dave, at the end of his rope from Gwens rejection, decides to marry Ginny, even over Bamas objections. While she is not Daves social or intellectual match, she gives him unconditional love that hes never had from anyone else. The two marry, but soon after they leave the judges house, Ray comes after them with a gun, shoots and injures Dave, and then shoots Ginny dead as she tries to protect Dave (in the James Jones novel, it is Dave who is shot in the face and killed by the character of Ray). Dave, Bama and Gwen all attend her funeral.
Some Came Running (film)
1958