Metallica is forced to examine their nature and their very existence as bassist Jason Newsted quits the band and frontman James Hetfield abruptly leaves the group to enter a rehabilitation facility due to alcohol abuse. Metallicas management Q-Prime hires "performance-enhancing coach" Phil Towle to help the group better understand one another as friends, bandmates, and human beings. When the members of Metallica eventually decide that Towles services are no longer required, Towle attempts to convince them that they still need him, saying "Weve still got some trust issues that I think we need to sort out." Former Metallica guitarist Dave Mustaine also appears briefly in a scene in which, as part of Lars Ulrichs therapy, he confronts the guitarist on September 13, 2001, regarding the decision to fire him early in the bands career for his excessive drinking. On top of the core relationship issues discussed during this meeting are two considerations specific to the date that it took place that will help aware viewers understand the tension and frustration in the room. First, the scene with Mustaine and Ulrich was filmed precisely two days after the September 11 attacks: a day when the entire United States was in a severe state of melancholy. Secondly, this coincidentally also just happened to be Dave Mustaines 40th birthday. For many years, until the burying of the hatchet between him and Metallica, Mustaine would grouse that he would much rather have spent his 40th birthday in Arizona with his wife and kids rather than on a couch in the Bay Area talking to Lars, even though the two had not had any serious personal contact for many years. In the meeting, Mustaine speaks frankly about his resentment stemming from his dismissal without the opportunity to redeem himself with an alcoholism treatment program; a point of view that Ulrich concedes he had never considered before. Mustaine also speaks of how, despite achieving success with his own group Megadeth, he still endures ridicule from Metallica fans, which has diminished the enjoyment of his own success. Of particular note is the perceived "power struggle" between Hetfield and drummer Ulrich – best friends for more than two decades who are finally beginning to understand one another. Ulrich confesses that he resents Hetfields need to control everything, even when Hetfield is not present; a stipulation of Hetfields rehab release required him to work only four hours per day from noon to 4 p.m. so he could spend time with his family. Hetfield subsequently objected to the rest of the band working on or even listening to recorded material when he was not present. The scene ends with Ulrich starting to curse under his breath, before finally getting nose-to-nose with Hetfield and roaring "Fuck!" In a scene where Hetfield, Ulrich, Kirk Hammett, and several others are discussing titles for the album, Hetfield suggests to use the name of the song "St. Anger." Many of the other people in the scene agree that it is a good title; however, Ulrich prefers "Frantic," which would become the first track on the album. Ulrich is eventually convinced that "Frantic," as an album title, would suggest a perceived lack of focus by the band. The film contains many excerpts from the studio of unreleased tracks, such as "Shadows of the Cross", "Dead Kennedy Rolls", "Riff" and "More Than This (Whipping Boy)". The only unreleased song that can be heard fully is "Temptation". The movie also addresses the early 2001 departure of longtime member Jason Newsted. He is interviewed, and both rehearsal and concert footage of his own group, Echobrain, is shown. In one scene, an apparently impressed Ulrich states that "Jason is the future" after he and Hammett watch the band perform live. Footage is shown from public auditions the band held to find a replacement bass player. In a scene after Robert Trujillos audition, guitarist Hammett notes that he uses his fingers to play, rather than a pick and mentions that it "hasnt been that way since Cliff Burton", Metallicas bassist before Newsted. The band members later concur not only that Trujillo was the only bassist who didnt appear to be struggling with Metallicas material, but that playing with him forced the other three to tighten up their own parts. In a sense, Trujillo "made us play better."
Some Kind of Monster (film)
2004