Three nerdy frat boys, Calvin, Jimmie, and Keith, follow and spy on the Tri-Delta sorority group, where they are having an initiation. Sorority members Babs, Rhonda, and Frankie prepare for the ritual while newcomers Taffy and Lisa await. Watched by the frat boys outside their house, the two initiates get spanked from a paddle and are sprayed with whip cream during the initiation. While the girls clean themselves, the boys enter the house and are caught by the girls. Due to this, the boys are sent with the pledges on a mission to steal a trophy from a nearby bowling alley. Unbeknownst, Babs father runs the mall where the bowling alley is at and watches the group through the security cameras. When the group enters the bowling alley, they encounter and meet Spider, a biker trying to rob the alley with a crowbar. With her help, they break into the trophy room and upon accidentally dropping the bowling trophy, unleash an imp named Uncle Impie who offers three wishes from freeing him. Jimmie gets a wish of gold stacks, Taffy gets a wish of being the Prom Queen, and Keith gets a wish of having sex with Lisa. After this, Uncle Impie soon possess the sorority trio from the camera; Frankie is turned into the Bride of Frankenstein and Rhonda is turned into a demon minion while Babs flees. After Babs is rendered unconscious from touching the malls electric doors, the group finds out that the wishes were turned rather false, with Jimmies gold made out of wood and Taffys dress disappearing. Jimmie is killed by the minions and his head is used for a bowling ball, and Lisa furiously tries to have sex with Keith. Spider and Calvin hide from Rhonda in a closet, where they find a pistol and shoot Rhonda with it before fleeing. After escaping from Lisa, Keith is killed by Rhonda by shoving his face into a stove, and Taffy is pulled apart by the minions. Babs awakes and fights Rhonda, who shoves her into the alley and is seemingly killed by a bowling ball by Spider. With Rhonda dead, Babs is possessed and turned into a demon minion. Calvin and Spider find the janitor, who reveals that the Imp was summoned to help a bowler, and the Imp was trapped for 30 years due to the creature killing people. Meanwhile, after Babs kills Lisa with a paddle, she is burned to death with a Molotov cocktail tossed by Calvin. After Spider and Calvin find the janitor dead, they are chased by Jackie with an axe. Spider gains the upper hand and decapitates her, and the severed head knocks the doors open. While Calvin starts up a car and is attacked by Rhonda from the backseat, Spider successfully traps Uncle Impie in a box. Calvins struggles to control the car, and ends up crashing upside down; Calvin apparently survives this and Rhonda is killed from the crash. In the morning, Spider drives Calvin to her house in her motorcycle while Uncle Impie is seen trapped in the box at the curb, asking someone to let him out.
Sorority Babes in the Slimeball Bowl-O-Rama
1988