After finding out that her boyfriend Garrett (Matt OLeary) has cheated on her, Theta Pi sorority sister Megan (Audrina Patridge) enlists the help of her friends and fellow sorority sisters Cassidy (Briana Evigan), Jessica (Leah Pipes), Ellie (Rumer Willis), Claire (Jamie Chung), and Garretts sister Chugs (Margo Harshman) to pull a prank on him. While having sex with Garrett, Megan fakes her own death. Garrett and the girls bring her to a lake, where they intend to dump her body. When Jessica mentions they need to release the air out of her lungs so that her body will not float to the surface, Garrett stabs Megan in the chest with a tire iron, killing her for real. Realizing what theyve done, the group dump Megans body and the tire iron in a nearby mine shaft. Everyone swears to never mention the incident to anyone, much to Cassidy and Ellies dismay. Eight months later, the girls are graduating from college and have put the incident behind them, but Cassidy has grown apart from the rest of the group. During the party held after graduation, the girls all receive on their cell phones a photo of a robed person holding the bloody tire iron. Suspicion immediately falls on Garrett, but Chugs insists hes changed after killing Megan. Maggie (Caroline DAmore), Megans younger sister, arrives, wanting to honor her sisters memory by attending the party. Later that day, Chugs arrives for her appointment to visit her therapist. However, an unknown figure wielding a tire iron murders them. In the sororitys shower room, Claire and Jessica talk about the night Megan was murdered. After they leave, a sorority girl named Joanna, who overheard their conversation, is murdered. At the party that night, Claires ex-boyfriend Mickey is attacked and murdered by the killer, which Ellie witnesses. Cassidy, Claire, Jessica, and Ellie regroup and all receive a text containing the video of Megans death and a message telling them to go to the mine shaft in twenty minutes or the video will be sent to the police. The girls drive to the mine shaft and encounter Garrett, who has cut his wrists and begins threatening them. Thinking Garrett is the one stalking them, Jessica runs over him with her vehicle. However, they discover afterward that Garrett has been receiving the same text messages they have. Ellie suspects that Megan is the killer, believing that she did not actually die and is seeking revenge. The girls lower Cassidy down the shaft to make prove that Megan is dead. Instead of finding Megans body, she finds a message written in blood which reads, "Theta Pi must die". Back at the now empty sorority house, the girls receive a text from Chugs cell phone, telling them that she is dead. Afterward, Claire is murdered with a flare gun. Searching the house for Jessicas boyfriend, Kyle (Matt Lanter), the girls run into Maggie and their house mother, Mrs. Crenshaw (Carrie Fisher). Maggie claims that Kyle had been with her prior to Jessicas return. After finding out about Megans murder, Mrs. Crenshaw tells the girls to lock themselves in Jessicas bedroom and to call the police while she searches for the killer. Maggie is horrified when she learns what happened to Megan and, thinking shes the killer, leaves the room to find her and convince her to stop killing. After many failed attempts to shoot the killer in the kitchen, Mrs. Crenshaw attempts to reload her shotgun but is killed by the hooded figure with a table. With no cell phones around, Cassidy and Jessica decide to find Mickeys body and use his cell, telling Ellie to run if she gets the chance. Downstairs, the killer confronts Maggie and after she begs the killer to stop, throws a Molotov cocktail at her, setting the house on fire. Cassidy and Jessica run into Kyle, who injures Jessica after getting into an argument with her. Cassidy and Jessica flee to an under-renovation bathroom where they find Megans decomposing corpse hanging in a closet. Kyle finds them dressed up as the killer and he attacks them. As he does so, it is revealed that Jessica knew of what had happened with Megan. He is killed with an axe by Andy (Julian Morris), Cassidys boyfriend. Jessica regains consciousness and causes Cassidy to realize that he was the killer. Jessica tries to negotiate with Andy, but Andy fatally stabs her. Revealing himself as the killer, Andy explains that he had hoped for a bright future with Cassidy, but because she was involved with Megans death, he feared that she would be found out, so he decided to kill everyone who knew about it. He kills Jessica. Despite Cassidys opposition, Andy tells her that they need to kill Ellie, the only other person who knew about the murder. Andy reveals that Ellie was the one who confided in him about Megans murder and will likely report it the police. Cassidy plays along and tells Andy that Ellie is in the basement. Just as Cassidy fetches Ellie from upstairs, theyre discovered and attacked by Andy. Cassidy stuns Andy and escapes, but finds Maggie, who is trapped behind the flames. Andy attempts to kill Maggie, resulting in a fight between him and Cassidy. The floor then crumbles underneath Cassidy, and she is left hanging over the burning basement. As Andy recovers and is about to finish her off, Ellie appears and shoots him with Mrs. Crenshaws shotgun. He falls backward onto the burning floor, which collapses under him and he falls to his death into the flames. After Maggie and Ellie save Cassidy, the three girls escape from the burning sorority house just as the fire department and other emergency personnel arrive. 18 months later, the Theta Pi building is being renovated from the fire and Maggie is now a Theta Pi sister. As the girls sing the Theta Pi song, a man comes into view, holding a garden trowel. The camera pans up to his wrist, revealing scars, implying that Garrett is still alive.
Sorority Row
2009