Paul Giraud is happily married to Suzanna, and together they live in a quiet neighborhood. As Suzanna notices that their new neighbors are expressive dancers with revealing outfits, she demands Paul to complain to them about their lack of morality. As Paul knocks on his neighbors door, he finds out that the woman is an old flame, Georgette Lalle. They reunite happily, and Georgette even attempts to kiss Paul, despite being married to her jealous husband Maurice. Paul does not answer Georgettes displays of affection, and instead introduces himself to Maurice. Back at home, Paul lies about his meeting with the Lalles, which confuses Suzanna as Maurice comes over moments later, trying to win her affection and expressing Pauls kindness. Paul overhears their flirtatious conversation, but pretends to be asleep. Somewhat later, Paul is on his way for a secret meeting with Georgette, when he is suddenly stopped by a police officer for speeding. After insulting the officer, Paul is charged with three days in prison. Suzanna, under the impression that Paul was speeding due to a patient crisis, does not understand why Paul does not gather witnesses to prove that he was speeding because of an emergency. She decides to call up the patient on the phone herself, only to find out that he is dead. Paul goes out to celebrate his death at the Artists Ball with Georgette. As he dresses up for a night out, he convinces Suzanna that he is heading to jail to serve his three-day sentence. While Paul and Georgette are enjoying themselves at a wild party, where they are dancing the Charleston, Maurice visits Suzanna and they grow intimate. They are caught by a detective, who is at the mansion to arrest Paul. Fearing a scandal, Suzanna convinces Maurice to pose as her husband, and he unhappily allows himself to be escorted by the detective. Meanwhile, she overhears through the radio that Paul and Georgette are the winners of a Charleston contest at the Artists Ball. She dresses up and comes over to confront her drunken husband, and tells him that he should be grateful to her for not having to go to jail anymore. They eventually reunite.
So This Is Paris (1926 film)
1926