A severe drought has ruined the carrot crop in Bugs Bunnys northern home. Upon learning of a boom crop in Alabama, Bugs decides to happily make the trip to the fertile soils. After a lot of walking, he exhaustedly asks, "I wonder why they put the South so far south?", but finds himself near the Mason–Dixon line that separates the drought-ravaged north from the fertile south. As soon as he crosses the line he is shot at by "Colonel" Sam, who chases Bugs back over the line, but then, realizing he is north, quickly runs back over the line, saying he has to burn his boots as they "touched Yankee soil!". Bugs asks Sam what the deal is, only to hear that Sam somehow believes that he is a soldier of the Confederate States of America and has received orders from General Robert E. Lee to guard the borders between the Confederate States and the United States. When Bugs points out that the "War Between the States" ended nearly 90 years ago, Sam says that "I aint no clock watcher!", and as he will stay there unless he hears otherwise from Lee, he shoots Bugs away, prompting the rabbit to make several attempts to shake his antagonist. First, Bugs disguises himself as a banjo-playing slave, singing "My Old Kentucky Home." When Sam asks for something "more peppy", Bugs promptly sings "Yankee Doodle," leading Sam to call Bugs a traitor. Bugs then begs Sam, calling him his master, not to beat him, and forcing a banjo string into Sams hands to make it look like Sam is holding a whip. After fleeing from Sam, Bugs immediately comes in disguised as Abraham Lincoln and with a tone that sounds like Foghorn Leghorn, scolds Sam for "whipping slaves". Sam tries to protest with repeated "buts" but Bugs silences him and hands him a card to "look me up at my Gettysburg Address". Bugs cover is blown, however, when his cotton tail shows through Abes trenchcoat, prompting an infuriated Sam to chase Bugs into a tree. Bugs blows out Sams match when he tries to light a cannonball, and when Sam tries it again away from the tree, he blows it out with extended pipe. Sam goes even further away from the tree in the third attempt, but with more ground to cover, the fuse runs out when Sam runs back to the tree and he takes the explosion. Bugs then disguises himself as Stonewall Jackson (here as "General Brickwall Jackson"), fooling Sam into marching into a well. Later, Bugs flees from Sam into a mansion, where he disguises himself as Scarlett OHara (from Gone with the Wind), and when Sam attempts to search the mansion, he takes a cannon explosion looking inside a closet and is dissuaded from searching any further. Bugs at last succeeds in getting Sam when, disguised as an injured Confederate soldier, he informs him that "the Yankees are in Chattanoogee" in Tennessee. Sam heads to "Chattanoogee", and the finale has him using a shotgun to threaten the New York Yankees, preventing them from competing in an exhibition baseball game against the Chattanooga Lookouts: "The first dang Yankee to step out of that dugout gets his head blasted off!!!".
Southern Fried Rabbit
1953