U.S. Marine Master Gunnery Sergeant James OHearn (Burt Lancaster) is being tried at the San Diego Marine base for desertion, theft, scandalous conduct and destruction of property in time of war. He refuses to testify or plead guilty or not guilty to the charges. The film alternates between flashbacks and the courtroom, as witnesses give their testimony. Showgirl Ginger Martin (Virginia Mayo) takes the stand against his protest. Ginger tells how she, broke and stranded, met OHearn and his friend, Marine Private First Class Davy White (Chuck Connors), of the 4th Marines in Shanghai two weeks before the attack on Pearl Harbor. With war looming, the 4th Marines are ordered out of China. White slips away to propose marriage so that Ginger can be evacuated from China (at government expense) as his wife. OHearn tracks him down at the nightclub where Ginger works. When the clubs manager objects to Ginger quitting, a brawl breaks out. The trio escape aboard a small motor boat. When the two men start fighting, Ginger tries to help White and accidentally disables the boat. They drift out to sea and are picked up by a passing junk. Once again, the Marines quarrel over Whites future. This time, they accidentally set the sail on fire. They have to chop down the mast in order to save the ship. As a result, they are put ashore on the Vichy French island of Namou. To avoid being jailed, the Marines persuade pro-Axis Governor Pierre Marchand (Leon Askin) that they are deserters. They are quartered in a hotel/brothel run by Lillie Duval and her three "nieces". OHearn is delighted to make their acquaintance, to Gingers annoyance. When a supposedly Dutch yacht calls at the island, OHearn tries to book passage, but the captain, Van Dorck (Rudolph Anders), refuses to take the risk. OHearn discovers that Van Dorck is actually a Nazi setting up radar stations on the islands around Guadalcanal, and plots to seize the ship with the help of expatriates like ex-U.S. Navy sailor "Jimmylegs" Donovan (Arthur Shields) and fugitive bank embezzler Smith, and Free French liberated from the prison. White refuses to join and says he is deserting and intends to remain on the island with Ginger. This causes Ginger to have second thoughts about their relationship. OHearn forces White on board the yacht at gunpoint. Back in the courtroom, OHearn breaks his silence in order to exonerate White. When Van Dorck and a search party find him, OHearn manages to kill them all. He and his men then overthrow the governor and load the islands armory on the ship, intending to join the fighting at Guadalcanal. Ginger slips aboard as a patriotic stowaway. They stumble upon a group of Japanese landing craft escorted by a destroyer. OHearn engages the Japanese in a fierce battle. When the destroyer tries to ram the yacht, White jumps aboard and climbs its smokestack. He throws in explosives, blowing up the destroyer at the cost of his own life. Only OHearn and Ginger survive; the rest of the crew die heroically. The court martial exonerates OHearn and recommends White for a posthumous Medal of Honor. OHearn and Ginger then admit they love each other.
South Sea Woman
1953