Two nerds, Nelson (David Knell) and Adam (Perry Lang), are looking forward to their first spring break and book a room at an inexpensive hotel called the Breeze and Seas in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. They meet cool guys Stu (Paul Land) and O.T. (Steve Bassett) from Brooklyn, New York, when the four of them are accidentally booked into the same room. With no other places available in town, they agree to share the room. Amidst the partying, a man named Eddie (Richard B. Shull) is trying to shut down the hotel with the aim of then buying it himself. Nelsons step-father, Ernest (Donald Symington), is running for political office. He becomes livid when he learns Nelson has shirked his assigned campaign duties. He and Nelsons mother go to Florida with the intention of bringing him home. When they arrive in their yacht, Ernest and hires Eddie to find his step-son. Nelson, Adam, Stu and O.T. become fast friends while drinking, partying and taking in the local night life. O.T. and Stu have better luck with women than Nelson and Adam, but the younger boys are undeterred. One night, the four guys go to a bar holding a wet T-shirt contest. Nelson meets a girl named Susie (Jayne Modean) and accompanies her back to her hotel. She asks him to get her a soda from the lobby, but when he forgets her room number the staff throws him out. The next day, Nelson finds Susie and explains what happened to him. He invites her to a party that night, which she accepts. Eddie, lurking nearby, manages to overhear this. Nelson and Susie meet up at the party, but have to leave when Eddie shows up with henchmen employed by Ernest. Nelson and Susie retreat to the beach, where they have sex. Eddie finds the couple the next morning and takes Nelson to his step-father. Nelson is severely scolded and locked up in the yacht. Eddie, having been paid enough by Ernest to buy the Breeze and Seas Hotel, bribes the local building commissioner to shut the place down. After being found and alerted by Susie, O.T. sneaks onto the yacht and frees Nelson. The four guys, Susie and a crowd of other spring breakers head to the hotel, where they get into a beer and whipped cream fight with Eddie and his henchmen. Ernest shows up and tries to throw his weight around, but Nelson gets the building inspector to admit he was bribed to shut down the hotel. Nelsons mother decides to divorce Ernest and he is then arrested by the police. With spring break over and the hotel saved, everyone says good-bye and takes a group photo to remember their adventures.
Spring Break (film)
1983