When the first day of Spring sets in, Jerry wants to play with Tom, but Toms attention has become fully focused on Toodles Galore, a very feminine white cat, who is sunbathing outside. It is love at first sight, and as Tom rushes to pick up Toodles handkerchief, she blows a kiss him, knocking him lovesick. As Toodles tosses sweets into Toms mouth, a green devil appears and convinces Jerry to break things up between Tom and his new-found love as revenge. Jerry sends a forged letter supposedly from Toodles, with perfume, to Toms rival Butch, who freshens up and then speeds off to meet Toodles for tea. As Tom kisses Toodles, Butch lies on the sun lounger next to Toodles, starting a fight between the two over Toodles heart. Tom hits Butch with a croquet mallet, but grabs Tom and throws him into the swimming pool. Butch then sings Quiéreme Mucho to Toodles with his guitar, but Tom tips Butch into the pool. As Tom drinks, Butch whacks a ball into his throat with a croquet mallet, knocking Tom out. Butch then whacks the ball onto Toms head to send Tom sliding through croquet rings and crashing into a pole, causing Tom to land on a barbecue and be rotated around on a rotisserie. Toodles then places flowers in Butchs hair, but Jerry and his anti-conscience place a pin under the lounger and jab him, which makes him give out a primal scream of agony. Tom then picks the pin up, causing Butch to chase Tom. Tom whacks Butch by turning a statue before climbing the diving board and diving into the water. Tom quickly drinks all the water, making Butch crash onto the pool floor. Tom then places a flower pot on a swing and hurls the swing at Butch, but Butch throws the swing back, catching Tom on the seat. As Tom swings back, Butch hits him with his guitar, making Tom fly out of the garden. Finally, Tom has had it and gives up. He reconciles with Jerry as they shake hands. Tom good-naturedly presents his hind end for Jerry to boot, Jerry does, and the chase is on again. However, Jerry then runs into a beautiful female mouse, and its love at first sight. After she blows a kiss to Jerry, Jerry pushes Tom out of the way and snuggles up to his newfound girlfriend.
Springtime for Thomas
1946