A twelve-year-old boy known for telling tall tales overhears a plot to kidnap the Presidents daughter. When he goes public with his story, no one believes him, and he is forced to save her on his own. The movie opens with Thomas being confronted at school by a gang of bullies. They beat him and shove him in a trash can for lying to them. He is picked on a lot. He is seen in Ms. Bleckners class making jokes and Ms. Bleckner assigns him detention and goes to attend her hair appointment. The next day at school Thomas sneaks into the library and hears someone talking about a kidnapping plot. He doesnt know who it is. Then he meets Randal and exclaims what happened. He realizes Randals cellphone ringtone is similar to the ringtone of the presumed criminal. He takes matters into his own hands and secretly hitches a ride in the back of the van. Randal catches him and reveals he is working for the FBI. Thomas tries to involve himself but Randal insists he doesnt. Thomas and his friend Madison Kramer persist anyway and attempt to stop it themselves. Randal and another FBI agent find them and decide to let them join in. Thomas and the other FBI agent go to the school dance believing that is where the kidnapping will take place. Randal is exploring the rest of the school and finds the villain but is attacked so he cannot expose the villain and foil the plan. Thomas and the other FBI agent supervise the dance floor searching for a possible villain. Meanwhile, Ms. Bleckner is seen walking down the hallway and she finds Randal in a storage closet tied up and gagged. Ms. Bleckner frees him and they go to expose the villain. Right before the kidnapping is about to happen Ms. Bleckner and Randal run onto the dance floor and expose the villain, who is the janitor. The janitor grabs the presidents daughter and escapes. Randal and the other FBI agent chase him down but he gets into a helicopter. Thomas sneaks onto the helicopter and stops the villain by in a final fight and saves the presidents daughter. He is congratulated by his mom and Randal and Madison Kramer. The movie ends with the two falling in love dancing.
Spy School
2008