In 1880, a group of strangers boards the stagecoach from Tonto, Arizona Territory, to Lordsburg, New Mexico. Among them are Dallas (Claire Trevor), a prostitute driven out of town by the "Law and Order League"; the alcoholic Doc Boone (Thomas Mitchell); pregnant Lucy Mallory (Louise Platt), who is travelling to join her cavalry officer husband; and whiskey salesman Samuel Peacock (Donald Meek), whose samples Doc Boone takes charge of and starts drinking. When the stage driver, Buck (Andy Devine), looks for his shotgun guard, Marshal Curly Wilcox (George Bancroft) tells him that the guard is off searching for a fugitive. The Ringo Kid has broken out of prison after hearing that his father and brother had been murdered by Luke Plummer. Buck tells Curly that Plummer is heading for Lordsburg and, knowing that Ringo has vowed vengeance, Curly decides to ride along as guard. As the stage sets out, U.S. Cavalry Lieutenant Blanchard (Tim Holt) announces that Geronimo and his Apaches are on the warpath; his small troop will provide an escort to Dry Fork. At the edge of town, two more passengers flag down the stage: gambler and Southern gentleman Hatfield (John Carradine) and assertive banker Henry Gatewood (Berton Churchill), who is absconding with money embezzled from his bank. Further along the road, the stage comes across the Ringo Kid (John Wayne), stranded after his horse has gone lame. Even though they are friends, Curly has to take Ringo into custody and crowds him too into the coach. But when they reach Dry Fork, the expected cavalry detachment has gone on to Apache Wells. Buck wants to turn back, but most of the party vote to proceed. At lunch before departing, the group is taken aback when Ringo invites Dallas to sit at the main table. Hatfield offers Mrs. Mallory his silver folding cup, rather than have her drink from the canteen directly. She recognizes the family crest on the cup and asks Hatfield whether he was ever in Virginia. He says that he served in the Confederate Army under her fathers command. On arriving at Apache Wells, Mrs. Mallory learns that her husband had been wounded in battle. When she faints and goes into labor, Doc Boone has to sober up and deliver the baby with Dallas assisting. Later that night, Ringo asks Dallas to marry him and live on a ranch he owns in Mexico. Afraid to reveal her past, she does not answer immediately. The next morning, she accepts, but does not want to leave Mrs. Mallory and the new baby, so she tells Ringo to go on alone to his ranch, where she will meet him later. As Ringo is escaping he sees smoke signals heralding an Apache attack and returns into custody. The stage reaches Lees Ferry, which Apaches have destroyed. Curly uncuffs Ringo to help lash logs to the stagecoach and float it across the river. Just when they think that danger has passed, the Apaches attack and a long chase scene follows, where some of the party are injured fighting off their pursuers. Just as they run out of ammunition and Hatfield is getting ready to save Mrs Mallory from capture by killing her with his last bullet, the 6th U.S. Cavalry rides to the rescue. At Lordsburg, Gatewood is arrested by the local sheriff and Mrs. Mallory learns that her husbands wound is not serious. She thanks Dallas, who gives Mrs. Mallory her shawl. Dallas then begs Ringo not to confront the Plummers, but he is determined to settle matters and as they walk through town he sees the brothel to which she is returning. Luke Plummer (Tom Tyler), who is playing poker in one of the saloons, hears of Ringo’s arrival and gets his brothers to join him. Ringo survives the three-against one shootout that follows and then surrenders to Curly, expecting to go back to prison. As Ringo boards a wagon, Curly invites Dallas to ride with them to the edge of town, but when she does so Curly and Doc shout to stampede the horses, letting Ringo ‘escape’ over the Mexican border.
Stagecoach (1939 film)
1939