Lieutenant Commander Data (Brent Spiner) is temporarily transferred to an undercover mission observing the peaceful Baku people. While on their planet, he malfunctions and reveals the presence of the joint Federation–Sona task force observing the Baku. Admiral Matthew Dougherty (Anthony Zerbe) contacts the USS Enterprise-E to obtain Datas schematics but adamantly states the presence of the Enterprise is not needed. Captain Picard decides to ignore these orders and takes the Enterprise to capture Data. After stopping Data, Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) becomes suspicious of Doughertys insistence that the Enterprise is no longer needed. His crew investigates the cause of Datas malfunction. They discover that the Baku have advanced technology, but have rejected its use to live simpler lives. Due to unique radiation or "metaphasic particles" emanating from their planets rings, they are effectively immortal. Doughertys allies, the Sona, are a decrepit race who use medical techniques to prevent death; their excessive use of cosmetic surgery gives them a mummified appearance. The Enterprise crew also begin to experience the rejuvenation effects of the planet: Lt. Commander Geordi La Forge (LeVar Burton) finds his eyes have regenerated and he no longer requires ocular implants; Commander William Riker (Jonathan Frakes) and Counselor Deanna Troi (Marina Sirtis) rekindle their long-abandoned relationship; and Picard develops a romantic relationship with the Baku woman Anij (Donna Murphy). Data and Picard discover a submerged and cloaked Federation ship containing a gigantic holodeck set up to recreate the Baku village. Datas malfunction stems from a Sona attack, received when he discovered the vessel. Picard confronts Dougherty and learns that top Federation officers and the Sona secretly planned to deceptively move the Baku to the ship and forcibly relocate them to another planet, allowing the Sona to collect the rejuvenating radiation (but poisoning the planet in the process). Dougherty orders the Enterprise to leave. Picard states the rejuvenation benefit of the radiation does not justify Doughertys plans for the Baku and violates the Prime Directive. He plans to alert the Federation of the forced relocation. Picard is joined by some of his crew to help the Baku escape from being abducted while Riker takes the Enterprise to a transmission range and communicate the violation to Star Fleet. The Sona send robotic probes to locate and capture the fleeing Baku. The Sona leader, Ahdar Ruafo (F. Murray Abraham), convinces Dougherty to allow two Sona ships to attack the Enterprise. Riker defeats the attacking ships and the Enterprise escapes. Their plan exposed, Ruafo insists upon harvesting the radiation source immediately. Picard, Anij, and several Baku are transported as prisoners onto the Sona ship. Picard reveals to Dougherty that the Sona and the Baku are the same race and involving the Federation in a blood feud. The Sona are a splinter faction of Baku who gave up their bucolic existence a century earlier to embrace the use of technology. They attempted to seize power but failed, and the Baku elders exiled them from the planet, denying them the rejuvenating effects of the rings. The Sona developed an artificial and imperfect means to extend their lives at the cost of disfigurement. Ruafo kills Admiral Dougherty when he backs out of the plan and Ruafo proceeds with his plan. While Picard is escorted to be executed, he convinces the Sona Gallatin (Gregg Henry) to help him stop Ruafo. Picard masterminds a ruse to transport Ruafo and his bridge crew to the holoship and shutdown the harvester. Ruafo discovers the deception and transports to the radiation harvester ship to manually restart the process. Picard follows and sets the harvester to self-destruct, which kills Ruafo while Picard is rescued by the Enterprise. The remaining Sona are forgiven and welcomed back by the Baku. Picard arranges a meeting between Gallatin and his Baku mother. The Enterprise crew take a moment to enjoy their rejuvenated selves before returning to their previous mission.
Star Trek: Insurrection
1998