Anthony "Tony" Manero, a former disco king, acts on his brothers advice and his own dreams of dancing professionally. He is now living in a Manhattan flophouse, working as a dance instructor and waiter at a dance club, searching for a big break in the modern dance productions on Broadway. The break from his Brooklyn life, family, and friends seem to have somewhat matured Tony and refined his personality, including his diminished Brooklyn accent, an avoidance of alcohol, and less use of profanity. Other attitudes remain unchanged, such as his disregard for his girlfriend, the forgiving Jackie, who is a dancer and rock singer. Still acting immature, Tony maintains some of his other macho and childish double standards, such as seeing other women but being offended if he sees Jackie with other men. Tony watches a show, which features Jackie as a dancer in the chorus, but focuses on the lead, a seemingly-wealthy English dancer, Laura. Tony pursues her with seduction in mind, and spends the night with her. He is annoyed when she dismisses him afterward, not understanding that she intended their encounter to be a one-night stand. Laura coldly justifies her treatment of him by saying that "Everybody uses everybody," and implies that Tony used her in order to get a dance role in her upcoming show. Unable to trust Tony, Jackie breaks up with him. Jackie, Tony, and Laura then all audition for the Broadway production Satans Alley. Jackie and Tony land small roles, and Laura is casted as the lead female dancer. Tony begins to realize how callous he has been to Jackie, and walks all the way from Manhattan to his old Bay Ridge neighborhood in Brooklyn in the middle of the night. When he walks past the 2001 Odyssey, he sees that the discotheque, which was his former hangout, is now a gay nightclub, and he realizes how much his life has changed since he left Brooklyn. When Tony goes to visit his mother, and apologizes for his selfishness and the trouble-making ways of his youth, she points out that his selfish behavior as a teen was what helped him escape a dead-end life in Bay Ridge. Tony feels better after this and heads back to Manhattan to repair his relationship with Jackie. His hostility and distance from the arrogant Laura increase as the production progresses. Tony decides to take a shot at replacing the male lead of Satans Alley, and requests Jackie to help him practice the number. Laura is disgusted when Tony succeeds and openly displays her resentment at having to partner him in the show. They cannot hide their chemistry on stage despite her animosity, which pleases the shows director. Satans Alley sells out, and the cast takes the stage to a standing-room-only crowd. The first act is a success despite Tonys brash disregard for the script when he kisses Laura at the end of their number. Laura furiously retaliates by clawing Tonys face. The director blasts Tony backstage, telling him to take his personal war away from the production. Laura seems to offer a truce when she asks to see him after the show to "clear things up." Tony, now fully aware of her manipulative ways, coldly tells her that he has other commitments, and Laura snidely responds that he lacks star quality. The second act is a dazzling display of dance and special effects, and Tony suddenly abandons the script near the end of the show. He hurls Laura away and gives way to his frustration in a solo dance. He finishes and holds out his hand to Laura with a command to jump. She halts amid Jackies and the directors commands, but finally leaps in his arms for a climactic finish to the show. The thrilled audience gives a standing ovation. Tony celebrates with his jubilant cast mates and reconciles with Jackie. He says that what he really must do is "strut" in celebration. He leaves the theater and struts through Times Square, beaming with his newfound success.
Staying Alive (1983 film)
1983