In the 1980s, Billy Wyatt (Harmon) is a thirty-something washed up baseball player who now works as a high school groundskeeper, spending his days tending to the field and drinking. One afternoon he receives a phone call informing him that Katie Chandler, an old acquaintance, has died. The bulk of the film consists of extended flashbacks to the 1960s explaining Billy and Katies relationship. Katie was a slightly older neighborhood girl who befriended Billys mother, Ginny (Brown), and who became his babysitter. Katie acts as a mentor to the young Billy, and, as he grows up, gives him advice on women and dating. As Billy ages he begins to develop feelings for Katie, though the rebellious and worldly wise Katie is interested in older men. Nevertheless, the two share a flirtatious relationship, and Katie comes to regard Billy as her closest friend and confidante. One summer in his late teens, Billys father dies in a car accident, and Katie, Billy, and Ginny go on vacation to recover from the tragedy. While sharing a beach house, Katie encourages Ginny to have a one-night stand. An enraged Billy attacks the man whom she brings home, thinking that having sex with another man so soon is disrespectful to his fathers memory. He and Katie argue, but later that night make up and sleep together. The next day, Katie tells Billy that shes leaving the country with a man shes been seeing, intending to live a life of adventure. In voice over narration, Billy recalls that this is the last time he ever saw Katie. In the present, Billy visits Katies family. Her father tells Billy that Katie went through a series of failed and abusive relationships getting married and divorced 4 times and that she had seemed chronically unhappy for some time. Despite apparently rebounding from her most recent breakup, she unexpectedly committed suicide. Katies father tells Billy that her suicide note requested that Billy be responsible for disposing of her ashes, and entrusts them to Billy. Billy reunites with his childhood friend Alan Appleby (Ramis), and the two engage in a night of reminiscing and carousing with Katies ashes while trying to decide what will be the most respectful way to dispose of them. Eventually, Billy recalls a memory of Katie telling him a story about watching an Atlantic City show in which a horse ran down a pier and jumped into the water, admiring the image of freedom it offered her. The next morning, Billy locates the same pier and scatters Katies ashes there. Seeing a new sense of possibility in his own life, Billy reunites with a former girlfriend and joins a minor league baseball team; the film ends with Billy, his girlfriend, and Appleby celebrating after a game.
Stealing Home
1988