Annelle Dupuy, a reserved beauty school graduate, is hired by Truvy Jones to work in her home-based beauty salon in northwestern Louisiana. At the same time, in another part of the neighborhood, MLynn Eatenton, and her daughter, Shelby, are preparing for Shelbys wedding, which is taking place later that day. They arrive, along with Clairee Belcher, the cheerful widow of the former mayor, to have their hair done. Suddenly, Shelby, who has type 1 diabetes, falls into a hypoglycemic state, but recovers quickly with the help of her mothers quick thinking. Later that afternoon, short-tempered, grouchy, and sarcastic Louisa "Ouiser" Boudreaux arrives in the salon and questions Annelle about where she has moved from, forcing Annelle to reveal that her husband has recently left her while fleeing the police, taking all their money and their car. Moved by Annelles emotional confession, Shelby invites her to the wedding, where Annelle meets Sammy, who is tending bar. Several months pass and Shelby returns to town to celebrate Christmas. During the festivities, she announces that she and her husband, Jackson Latcherie, are expecting their first child. Shelbys father Drum is thrilled, but MLynn is too worried to share in the joy. Truvy, Annelle, and Clairee had originally thought that Shelby couldnt have children, but on the night of the big announcement, MLynn clarifies for them that the doctors said Shelby shouldnt have children because of her health. It becomes clear that Shelby could actually die due to pregnancy complications related to her diabetes. Unable to give her any words of wisdom, Truvy suggests they focus on the joy of the situation: Jackson and Shelbys first child, as well as Drum and MLynns first grandchild, as well as their sons, Jonathan and Tommys, first niece or nephew. MLynn agrees, saying that nothing pleases Shelby more than proving her wrong. Shelby successfully delivers a baby boy, Jackson Jr., but begins showing signs of kidney failure and starts dialysis around the time Jackson Jr. turns one. MLynn successfully donates a kidney and Shelby seemingly resumes a normal life. Clairee and Ouiser offer to make sure that MLynns husband, Drum, Jonathan, and Tommy have enough food to last until MLynn returns home after the transplant. Later, on Halloween, Ouiser, Clairee, Truvy, and MLynn throw Annelle a surprise wedding shower, as she is now engaged to Sammy. Shelby is unavailable to attend due to a conflicting schedule with her nursing job, and is later found by Jackson unconscious on the porch of her house. Shelby is rushed to the hospital, where it is determined that her body rejected the new kidney, and she is now in a coma. The doctors inform the family that Shelby is likely to remain comatose indefinitely, and they all jointly decide to take her off life support. At the funeral, after the other mourners have left, MLynn breaks down in hysterics in front of Ouiser, Clairee, Truvy, and Annelle, but is comforted by them. Later, at the wake, MLynn begins to accept her daughters death and focuses her energy on helping Jackson raise Jackson Jr. Annelle, now married and pregnant, asks MLynn if she could name her own baby after Shelby, since Shelby was the reason Annelle and Sammy met. MLynn gives her blessings and assures Annelle that Shelby wouldve loved it. Months later, on Easter morning, Annelle goes into labor during an Easter egg hunt, is rushed to the hospital by Truvy and her husband Spud, and another life begins.
Steel Magnolias
1989