An enigmatic swordsman named Nomad (Patrick Swayze), wanders through the desert in a post-World War III world. He searches for his mentors killer, the assassin Sho (Christopher Neame). The war itself is never described, but there are hints that a new government rose soon afterwards, though it has lost power since. In the past, Nomad had a position of privilege as a soldier of the elite guard. Since firearms are no longer available, edged weapons have been revived as the standard fighting tools. The elite guard mastered the use of swords and carried them in an unusual, upright fashion. Nomads family were, in some way, killed and this continues to torture him. Nomad runs into a group of settlers in the town of Meridian. Damnil (Anthony Zerbe), a local landowner, and his gang are attacking the town to gain a monopoly on the local water supply. Nomad stays at a local farm owned by the widow Kasha (Lisa Niemi). She has a son named Jux, who quickly endears himself to Nomad. Kasha reveals to Nomad that she has an endless source of pure water under her land and plans to eventually irrigate the whole valley. Nomad teams up with Kashas foreman, Tark (Brion James), to oppose Damnil and his bullying tactics. Meanwhile, Nomad and Kashas relationship becomes romantic. Sho and some of Damnils men show up in town, leading to Sho and Nomad having a brutal staff fight. Tark gets in the way and is stabbed in the abdomen by Sho and dies. Jux is kidnapped by Damnils men. Nomad plans to rescue Jux, but is locked in a safe with his sword by Kasha. She goes to Damnils farm alone, offering to reveal her source of water if they free Jux. A stand-off ensues, allowing Jux to escape. As Damnils men chase him down, Nomad comes just in time to save Juxs life. Nomad and Jux return to Damnils farm to rescue Kasha. Nomad has a final battle with Sho. Nomad is victorious and kills Damnil as well. The valley begins Kashas irrigation project. Nomad bids farewell to Kasha and Jux. They watch as he and his dog walk off into the desert.
Steel Dawn
1987