After surviving being shot and stabbed at the end of the previous film, Jerry Blake is institutionalized in Puget Sound, Washington. Blake has meetings with his psychiatrist. He escapes the institution after murdering the psychiatrist and a guard. He dons a uniform to help him escape. After robbing and killing a traveling salesman, Blake checks into a hotel, alters his appearance, assumes the identity of deceased psychiatrist Gene F. Clifford, and travels to Palm Meadows, Los Angeles. Arriving in Palm Meadows, Gene meets Carol Grayland and leases a house across the street from her and her 13-year-old son, Todd. During a session with the wives of the neighborhood, Gene learns Carols husband, Philip, left his family the previous year. Gene begins courting Carol, eventually winning over her and Todd. Genes plan to marry Carol is soon complicated when Phil returns, wanting to reconcile with his wife. Needing Phil out of the way, Gene persuades Carol to send him over for a meeting, during which Gene stabs him to death with a broken bottle, covering up Phils disappearance afterwards by making it look like he simply ran off again. With Phil gone, Gene and Carol arrange to get married. Local mail carrier Matty Crimmins begins looking through Genes mail, finding a letter addressed to the real Gene Clifford (which includes a photograph revealing him to be African American). She confronts Gene, demanding to know who he really is, although Gene tries to make it look like the letter was sent to the wrong person. Gene persuades her to let him tell Carol the truth about his past. Later that night, Gene sneaks into Mattys house and strangles her to death, making her death look like a suicide. On his way out, Gene takes Mattys last bottle of wine and crosses through the yard of Mattys blind neighbor Sam Watkins, who hears Gene whistling "Camptown Races," which he mentions to Carol the next day. Despite Mattys death, the wedding proceeds as planned. While dressing in the church, Carol recognizes bottles of wine sent by Mattys parents as the same brand Gene had the other night, and overhears Todd whistling "Camptown Races", which he says Gene taught him. Thinking Gene may have had something to do with Mattys death, Carol confronts him, prompting Gene to attack Carol and Todd, whom he locks in a storage closet. As Gene prepares to kill Carol with a knife she used to stab him, Todd breaks out of the closet and saves his mother, knocking the knife out of Genes hand and stabbing him in the chest with a claw hammer, apparently killing him. As Carol and Todd walk into the wedding ceremony, everyone is disgusted to see them covered in blood until Carol collapses on the floor. The film ends with Gene getting up, stumbling through the wedding party and collapsing on the floor by the wedding cake, weakly uttering "Till death...", then seemingly dying from his wounds.
Stepfather II
1989