Brennan Huff and Dale Doback are immature adults still living at home. Brennan lives with his divorced mother, Nancy, and Dale lives with his widowed father, Robert. Robert and Nancy meet, fall in love, and get married, forcing Brennan and Dale to live with each other as step brothers. Brennan and Dale despise each other for interfering with their lifestyles. Dale warns Brennan not to touch Dales drum set, which Brennan later does anyway and is confronted by Dale. Brennan further aggravates Dale by rubbing his genitals all over the drum set, and a brawl ensues between them. They are grounded for a week following the incident and told they must find jobs within a month, or they will be evicted from the house. When Brennans younger and more successful brother Derek, the executive vice president of a helicopter chartering corporation, comes to visit with his family, he openly ridicules them for their lack of ambition, enticing Dale to punch him in the face. Brennan is awed that Dale stood up to Derek, while Dereks wife Alice (who also resents Derek) finds Dales courage a turn-on, attempting to begin a sexual affair between the two. Brennan and Dale discover their shared interests and develop a brotherly friendship. Robert schedules several job interviews for Brennan and Dale, in which they perform poorly. Robert and Nancy reveal their plans to retire and sail the world on Roberts boat and allow Derek to sell the house, and they demand that Brennan and Dale attend therapy and find other living arrangements. Dale and Brennan decide to start a large entertainment company, Prestige Worldwide. They present their first music video, which they filmed on Roberts boat, at Dereks birthday party. The presentation backfires when the video shows the boat crashing. Robert is furious and refuses to make an investment. On Christmas Day, Robert announces he and Nancy are getting divorced, causing Brennan and Dale to break down. Blaming each other for the divorce, Brennan and Dale fight, then decide to go their separate ways. Brennan works for Dereks helicopter leasing firm and Dale works for a catering company. Weeks later, Brennan and Dale are fully mature adults and are doing well at their new jobs and living independently. Wanting to reunite the family, Brennan volunteers to oversee the Catalina Wine Mixer for Dereks company and invites Robert and Nancy. They hire the catering company Dale works for. The party is a success, until the lead singer of Uptown Girl, a 1980s Billy Joel tribute band hired to perform at the event, loses his temper with the audience after he refused to play any pre-80s Billy Joel hits and is ejected. With the stage empty, Derek fires Brennan, blaming him for the debacle, and Robert ultimately encourages Brennan and Dale to be their eccentric child-at-heart selves again. Brennan and Dale take the stage and perform "Por Ti Volaré". Derek is so moved by the performance that he and Brennan make amends. Dale ends his relationship with Alice to her dismay. Six months later, Robert and Nancy are back together living in their old house. Brennan and his therapist Denise are in a relationship, while Brennan and Dale have turned Prestige Worldwide into a successful entertainment company that runs karaoke events. Robert has his boat repaired and put on display in the backyard. In a mid-credits scene, Brennan and Dale stand up to a group of bullies from a middle school who abused Dale a year prior. In a post-credits scene, Brennan and Dale sleepwalk once more.
Step Brothers (film)
2008