A secretary, Evelyn Smith, lands a job working for Remmy, a Senator. One day while swimming, she encounters Johnny Christopher, a passerby who stopped to admire her. Johnny just returned from active duty in the Pacific during WWII. He and his war dog, Bazuka, flirt with Evelyn who smiles and then returns to Remmys home. Johnny locks himself out of his car, so on foot (and in his bathing suit) he makes his way to Remmys nearby home. A strange woman answers the door and claims to be Evelyn, confusing Johnny. The more he snoops around, the more he is convinced that something is wrong, but the police refuse to believe him. Johnny sneaks back into Remmys home, donning clothes he finds laying around. Enemy agents have tied up Remmy, the real Evelyn and the senators chauffeur. They are searching for a list in the Senators possession, but Johnny accidentally ends up with possession of it due to his new wardrobe. The chauffeur is shot, the Senator is unconscious and a government operative, James Blackton is dead. The chauffeur escapes and brings in the police and the coroner. The Senator comes around and the police are sure it is an inside job, with Evelyn and Johnny as the prime suspects. Fleeing for their lives, Evelyn and Johnny end up at a motel run by Capt. Caleb Simpson and gain his trust. Unbeknownst to them, the enemy agents are also staying at the motel. Evelyn and Johnny track down the chauffeur and try to get information about the list from him. The chauffeur is about to spill the beans when the enemy agents shoot him through the open window. The enemy agents make a quick get-away, and Capt. Simpson helps Evelyn and Johnny escape from the police. The enemy agents connect Johnny, Bazuka and the borrowed clothes. The spies decide the list must be in the jacket and then discover Evelyn and Johnnys hiding place at the motel. Johnny tells them he disposed of the jacket in the sea. The enemy agents knock out Johnny and Evelyn. After finding the jacket in the back of Johnnys car, and the list in the jacket pocket, the enemy agents plan to dispose of Evelyn and Johnny. They drive off with Johnny in the trunk and Evelyn wrapped up in the back seat. The police arrive and search the motel. They find a letter Johnny was writing to the Senator. After getting stopped at a police barracade, they are recognized and escape after shooting a police officer. Johnny tries to signal with the tail lights in Morse code. The enemy agents plan to scuttle a boat with Evelyn and Johnny aboard. While in the boathouse, Johnny breaks loose and fights with the 2 male enemy agents and Evelyn takes care of the female agent. Capt. Caleb arrives with the police to place the enemy agents under arrest. Evelyn and Johnny marry with Bazuka and Capt. Caleb in tow.
Step by Step (1946 film)
1946