The film begins with the opening credits, using a style similar to Stanley Kubricks Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (the movie trailer also makes references to Dr. Strangelove). Title designer Pablo Ferro was responsible for both title sequences. Lead singer David Byrne walks on to a bare stage (seen from the feet only initially) with a portable cassette tape player and an acoustic guitar. He introduces "Psycho Killer" by saying he wants to play a cassette tape, ostensibly from the boom box. In reality, the tick-tock drum machine was a Roland TR-808 drum machine played from the mixing board. The drum machine plays gunshot-like beats that cause Byrne to stagger "like Jean-Paul Belmondo in the final minutes of Breathless, a hero succumbing, surprised, to violence that hed thought he was prepared for." With each successive song, Byrne is cumulatively joined onstage by each core member of the band: first by Tina Weymouth for "Heaven" (with Lynn Mabry, originally of The Brides of Funkenstein and Parliament-Funkadelic, providing harmony vocals from backstage), second by Chris Frantz for "Thank You for Sending Me an Angel", and third by Jerry Harrison for "Found a Job". Performance equipment is gradually wheeled out and wired up to the bare stage between and throughout the performances, as Talking Heads continue to be augmented by several additional musicians, most of whom had extensive experience in funk: back-up singers Lynn Mabry and Ednah Holt, keyboardist Bernie Worrell (formerly of Parliament-Funkadelic), percussionist Steve Scales, and guitarist Alex Weir (of The Brothers Johnson). The first song to feature the entire lineup is "Burning Down the House", although the original 1985 RCA/Columbia Home Video release (which featured three additional songs in two performances edited into the film) has the entire band (minus Worrell) performing "Cities" before this song. Byrne leaves the stage at one point to allow the Weymouth–Frantz-led side-band the Tom Tom Club to perform their song "Genius of Love" (The 1999 re-release of the film featured alternate rap lines by Frantz to remove a cocaine reference, "snow white", featured in the original release). The band also performs two songs from Byrnes soundtrack album The Catherine Wheel, "What a Day That Was" and (as a bonus song on the home video release) "Big Business." The film is also notable for Byrnes "big suit", a normal business suit that gradually increases in size as the concert progresses, until by the song "Girlfriend Is Better" (featuring lyrics from which the film takes its title) it is absurdly large. The suit was partly inspired by Noh theatre styles, and became an icon not only of the film – as it appears on the movie poster, for instance – but of Byrne himself. Byrne said: "I was in Japan in between tours and I was checking out traditional Japanese theater — Kabuki, Noh, Bunraku — and I was wondering what to wear on our upcoming tour. A fashion designer friend (Jurgen Lehl) said in his typically droll manner, ‘Well David, everything is bigger on stage.’ He was referring to gestures and all that, but I applied the idea to a businessmans suit." Pauline Kael stated in her review: "When he comes on wearing a boxlike big suit — his body lost inside this form that sticks out around him like the costumes in Noh plays, or like Beuys large suit of felt that hangs off a wall — its a perfect psychological fit." On the DVD, in one of several interviews between two Byrne-portrayed characters, he gives his reasoning behind the suit: "I wanted my head to appear smaller and the easiest way to do that was to make my body bigger, because music is very physical and often the body understands it before the head."
Stop Making Sense
1984