After securing a grant to study stellar structures, American applied mathematician David Sumner moves with his glamorous young British wife Amy to her natal village of Wakely in the Cornish countryside. Amys ex-boyfriend, Charlie Venner, and his cronies, Norman Scutt, Chris Cawsey and Phil Riddaway, immediately resent the meek outsider who has married one of their own. Scutt, a former convict, is privately jealous of Venners past relationship with Amy, as well. David also meets Venners uncle, local drunkard Tom Hedden. Heddens flirtatious teenage daughter seems attracted to Henry Niles, a mentally deficient man hated by the entire town. The Sumners rent an isolated farmhouse, Trenchers Farm, and hire Venner, Scutt, Cawsey and Venners cousin to repair its garage. Tensions in their marriage soon become apparent. Amy criticizes Davids condescension towards her and his escape from the volatile, politicized campus, thereby suggesting that cowardice was his true reason for leaving the US. He responds by withdrawing deeper into his studies, ignoring both the hostility of the locals and Amys dissatisfaction. His aloofness results in Amys attention-gathering pranks and provocative demeanor towards the workmen, particularly Venner. David even struggles to blend in with the educated locals, as shown in conversation with the vicar and the local magistrate, Major Scott. When their dead cat appears hanging in their bedroom closet, Amy claims Cawsey or Scutt are responsible. She presses David to confront the workmen, but he is too intimidated by them. The men invite David to go hunting the following day. They take him to a remote location and leave him there with the promise of driving birds towards him. Having lured David away, Venner goes to Trenchers Farm where he initiates sex with Amy. She resists, but is slapped and eventually relents to the rape. By the end of the scene, she appears to be at least partially consenting. As they lie together, Norman Scutt enters silently, motions Venner to move away at gunpoint and rapes Amy, this time unambiguously, while Venner reluctantly holds her down. When David returns, Amy says nothing about what happened, except for a double entendre that escapes his attention. The next day, David, still seemingly unaware of Amys ordeal, fires the workmen for having ditched him during their hunting trip. Later, the Sumners attend a church social where Amy becomes distraught after seeing her rapists. They leave the social early, drive through thick fog and accidentally hit Henry Niles. They take him to their home and David phones the local pub to report the accident. Unbeknownst to him, minutes earlier Niles had accidentally strangled Tom Heddens daughter after she tried to seduce him. Hedden, now searching for her, learns she was last seen with Niles, and is alerted by Davids phone call to Niless whereabouts. Soon enough Hedden, Scutt, Venner, Cawsey and Riddaway are drunkenly pounding on the Sumners door. Inferring their intention to lynch Henry, David refuses to let them take him despite Amys pleas. The standoff seems to unlock a territorial facet in David: "I will not allow violence against this house." Major Scott arrives to defuse the situation, but is accidentally shot dead by Hedden during a struggle. Realizing the danger in witnessing this homicide, David improvises various makeshift traps and weapons, including boiling oil, to fend off the siege. He tricks Hedden into shooting his own foot and bludgeons Cawsey to death with a poker. Venner holds him at gunpoint, but Amys screams alert both men when Scutt assaults her. Scutt suggests Venner join him in another gang rape, but Venner shoots him dead. David disarms Venner and in the ensuing fight snaps an ornamental mantrap around Venners neck, killing him. Watching the mayhem around him and surprised by his own violence, David mutters to himself, "Jesus, I got em all." Riddaway then brutally attacks him, but is shot by Amy as he tries to break Davids spine. David gets into his car to drive Niles back to the village. Niles says he does not know his way home. David says he does not either.
Straw Dogs (1971 film)
1971