In post-war America the President of the United States is scheduled to journey through the small town of Suddenly, California. Claiming to be checking up on security prior to his arrival, a group of FBI agents arrive at the home of the Bensons, on top of a hill that looks down upon the station where the presidential train is scheduled to stop. However, they soon turn out to be assassins led by the ruthless John Baron (Frank Sinatra), who take over the house and hold the family hostage. Sheriff Tod Shaw (Sterling Hayden) arrives with Dan Carney (Willis Bouchey), a Secret Service agent in charge of the presidents security detail. When he does, Baron and his gangsters shoot Carney and a bullet fractures Shaws arm. Baron sends one of his two henchmen to double-check on the presidents schedule but he is killed in a shootout with the police. Jud (James OHara), a television repairman, shows up at the house and also becomes a hostage. Pidge (Kim Charney) goes to his grandfathers dresser to fetch some medication and notices a fully loaded revolver which he replaces with his toy cap gun. Baron is confronted by the sheriff on the risks and meaning of killing the President and Barons remaining henchman begins showing some reluctance. For Baron, however, these are the very least of his concerns and it soon becomes clear that he is a psychopath whose pleasure comes from killing – who and why he kills being of little importance to him. A snipers rifle has been mounted on a metal table by a window. Jud discreetly hooks the table up to the 5000-volt plate output of the family television. Pop Benson (James Gleason) then spills a cup of water on the floor beneath the table. Although the hope is that Baron will be shocked and killed in this way, his remaining henchman touches the table first and is electrocuted, reflexively firing the rifle repeatedly and attracting the attention of police at the train station. Baron shoots and kills Jud, disconnects the electrical hook-up and aims the rifle as the Presidents train arrives at the station, but to his surprise it passes straight through (the stop having been cancelled). Ellen Benson (Nancy Gates) shoots Baron in the abdomen and Shaw shoots him again. Barons dying words are: "No…dont…no…please no…no…no…"
Suddenly (1954 film)
1954