Ryan Dunne (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) is a local baseball player who dreams of playing in the major leagues. He helps his dad with his landscaping business and takes care of Veterans Field, where his team, the Chatham As play. Ryan, in his dedication to making the pros, he has sworn off girls and drinking to avoid distractions. This changes when he sees Tenley Parrish (Jessica Biel), as he and his father are mowing the Parrish familys lawn. The next day, the As have their first game of the season where rival Van Leemer (Corey Pearson) shines pitching a shut-out, while Ryan is told to walk the stands for donations. That evening Ryan and Tenley have their first kiss. The next night Ryan is pitching in his first game of the season. The game goes well for the As until the last inning when Ryan gives up a grand slam, allowing the other team to take the lead and win the game. Ryan returns home from the game, to find his dad drunk and upset about the loss. Later, Ryan visits Tenley where he confides about his rocky relationship with his father and concerns about failing as a baseball player. Ryan is distracted by Tenley and feels a lot of pressure from scouts, family, the Parrish family, and friends. He is told that hes getting the start for an upcoming big game. The next night, Ryan starts out well in the big game, but comes apart later on. The loss causes him to be demoted from his starting position to the bullpen in a relief position. Despite the bad outing, Hugh Alexander (John C. McGinley), a scout for the Philadelphia Phillies in attendance, shows interest in Ryans talent. Van Leemer is kicked off the team for bad behavior and since Ryan has the freshest arm and the most rest, he is designated to start the final game. Tenley tells Ryan that shes leaving for San Francisco for a job opportunity the following night, which is the night of the final game. She tells him to let himself be great, before tearfully hugging him goodbye. Inspired by Tenleys words of encouragement, Ryan pitches one of the best performances ever seen in the Cape League, dominating the game with a no-hitter, with his friends, dad and brother, and several major league scouts, including Alexander, in attendance. Late in the game while on the mound, he notices that Tenley has stopped by on her way to the airport to watch him. He proceeds to strike out the current batter, marking his eleventh strike-out of the game, and looks back to see that Tenley is gone. Ryan then realizes that he loves Tenley and takes himself out of the game and rushes to the airport where he catches Tenley before she boards her plane. They both profess their love for each other and she agrees to forego her job in San Francisco and stay. Ryans dad and brother soon arrive with the scout Alexander, to tell him that his team won the game with a combined no-hitter. Alexander, extremely impressed and convinced by Ryans performance in the game, offers Ryan a contract with the Phillies that will start him out at their minor league affiliate, which he happily accepts. In a mid-credits scene, everyone is gathered to watch Ryan in his big league debut as a starter for the Phillies. He delivers his first pitch to Ken Griffey, Jr., who launches it into the stands for a home run. Philadelphia Phillies players Mike Lieberthal, Doug Glanville, and Pat Burrell, along with outfielder Ken Griffey, Jr., make appearances at the end of the film. Other notable cameos in the movie include Kevin Youkilis, Curt Gowdy, Hank Aaron and Carlton Fisk.
Summer Catch
2001