In 1970 twenty-year-old Jerry (Michael Douglas) returns to his parents Herb (Jack Warden) and Ruth (Barbara Bel Geddes) to let them know that he has dropped out of university to find himself. His parents are worried not only because they have wasted expensive tuition on Jerry, but the Vietnam War is raging and Jerry has lost his draft deferral. Jerry has plans to enter a Conservatorium of Music as he is confident in his self-taught guitar playing. Inspired by a television advertisement, Jerry becomes a Big Brother to a black child named Marvis. When Marvis is slightly injured in a fall, they visit a hospital where Jerry meets a nurse named Vanetta (Brenda Vaccaro). They soon fall in love, despite Vanetta being older than Jerry, and begin living with each other. Jerry accidentally discovers an autographed photo of Vanetta declaring her love to a man named Tony (Bill Vint). Vanetta explains that Tony is her husband and they separated two years ago but are not divorced. Later, Tony (returning home from Vietnam wearing his Marine uniform) arrives at Vanettas apartment and tells Jerry that Vanetta promised to wait for him. Vanetta arrives home, and Jerry leaves to let them clear their personal issues. Jerrys streak of bad luck continues when Marviss brother is killed in Vietnam and Marvis takes his anger out on Jerry, ending their relationship. Despite an impressive performance at his audition for the Conservatorium he is rejected for entry because he has had no formal musical education. Three times lucky, Herb visits Jerry to bring him his draft notice. Jerry buys an old Ford Fairlane and intends on going to Canada. After a family argument his father agrees with Jerry but urges him to have his car inspected at the local gas station for safety prior to his departure. On the day he is supposed to take his induction physical Herb buys Jerry a set of new tires. While Jerry looks at some road maps he overhears Herb attempting to bribe the petrol station attendant to fix Jerrys car so it can not run for a few days. Jerry bursts into tears and drives his old heap out of the station into another junk car being towed by a tow truck. The final scene: night, and Herb and Ruth retire to bed. As they close their eyes, on their television, news of action in Vietnam shows a dying Jerry being carried away by fellow soldiers.
Summertree
1971