In the fictional town of Spurbury, Vermont, five Vermont state troopers patrol a 50-mile section of the highway. While troopers Arcot Ramathorn (Chandrasekhar) and the rookie, Robert "Rabbit" Roto (Stolhanske) are tormenting a group of men for smoking marijuana, they encounter a crazed attacker, who is revealed to be their co-worker MacIntyre Womack (Lemme) playing a prank on them. Back at the station, they are chastised for a lack of arrests by their boss, Captain John OHagen (Cox), who warns them that they risk being shut down. They also torment the radio dispatcher, Rodney Farva, who has been suspended. While investigating a Winnebago, they encounter a woman who died from a drug overdose with a tattoo of a monkey. Once outside the trailer, the state troopers encounter their rivals, the local Spurbury police, who they compete with for arrests. When Rabbit and Womack pull over a truck for avoiding a weigh-station, they are locked inside while the driver flees. After Ramathorn and and Foster (Soter) rescue them, they find packages with stickers depicting the same monkey seen on the dead womans tattoo. Foster begins a relationship with Spurbury PD officer Ursula Hanson (Coughlan), and discovers marijuana hidden in the impounded Winnebago, bearing the same monkey sticker. Farva is reinstated to the force and becomes Ramathorns partner. While at a restaurant, Farva attacks a cashier in retaliation for cutting a hole in his drink. Farva is arrested by the Spurbury police, where he receives a job offer from Police Chief Bruce Grady (von Bargen) in exchange for information about the drug investigation. The Vermont governor (Carter) travels to Spurbury for a press conference about the drug bust. Knowing that the Spurbury police will be involved with the governors visit, Ramathorn and Foster break into the Spurbury police office to steal the Winnebago to present the marijuana as evidence. At the press conference, Chief Grady claims repsonsibilty for the drug bust, despite it being the work of the State troopers. Foster thinks that Ursula revealed the location of the marijuana to her boss in exchange for a promotion. Having failed to increase arrests, the state troopers expect their unit to be shut down. Back at the station, the state troopers find Farva dressed in a Spurbury PD uniform; Foster realizes that it was him, not Ursula, who betrayed the location of the marijuana. The troopers, including Captain OHagen, tie Farva to a toilet and drunkenly vandalize Chief Gradys house. Ursula offers to help them, and directs them to one of the drug-running trucks. As they attempt to pursue it, they encounter Farva, who holds them at gunpoint. The state troopers convince Farva to help them in pursuing the drug runners, and follow the truck to a nearby airfield. The state troopers see Chief Grady arrive, only to realize that the Spurbury police are working alongside the drug dealers. Using a sex doll on top of Farvas car, the state troopers distract the Sudbury police officers long enough to attack and arrest them. The governor sends Captain OHagen a letter thanking him for his efforts, but tells him that their station will still be shut down. Three months later, Ramathorn and Rabbit are delivering beer to a party hosted by teenagers. As the teenagers torment them, they reveal that they are undercover Spurbury police, having replaced all of the officers after the drug bust.
Super Troopers
2001