In the future, widespread use of remotely controlled androids called "surrogates" allows everyone to live in idealized forms from the safety of their homes. Compared to their surrogates, the human operators are depicted as slovenly and homebound. Protected from harm, a surrogates operator feels no pain when the surrogate is damaged. In Boston, FBI agent Tom Greer (Bruce Willis) has been estranged from his wife Maggie (Rosamund Pike), since their sons death several years before. He never sees her outside of her surrogate and she criticizes his desire to interact via their real bodies. Tom and his partner, Agent Jennifer Peters (Radha Mitchell), investigate the death of two people who were killed when their surrogates were destroyed at a club. Jarid Canter (Shane Dzicek), one of the victims, is the son of Dr. Lionel Canter (James Cromwell), the inventor of surrogates and the former head of their manufacturing company, VSI. The two determine that a human, Miles Strickland (Jack Noseworthy), used a new type of weapon to overload the surrogates systems and kill their operators. After locating Strickland, Tom attempts to bring him into custody. Strickland uses the weapon and injures Tom during the chase; Tom inadvertently crash-lands into an anti-surrogate zone known as the Dread Reservation (one of many throughout the US). A mob of humans destroys Toms surrogate, forcing him to interact in the world without one. The Dread leader known as The Prophet (Ving Rhames) kills Strickland and confiscates the weapon. Tom learns that VSI originally produced the weapon, designed to load a virus that overloads the surrogates systems, thus disabling it, under a government contract. Unexpectedly, the weapon also disabled the fail-safe protocols protecting operators. The project was promptly scrapped and all prototypes supposedly destroyed. Tom also learns that Andrew Stone (Boris Kodjoe), his FBI superior, supplied the weapon to Strickland and ordered Dr. Canters assassination, upon VSIs request, for his criticism of surrogate use. Jarid, using one of his fathers many surrogates, was killed instead. Jennifer is murdered in her own home by an unknown man who hijacks her surrogate, and the Prophet orders the weapon delivered to her. During a military raid on the reservation, the Prophet is shot, revealing his identity as a surrogate, with Canter himself as the operator. Travelling to Canters home, Tom discovers that he has been controlling not only the Prophet, but Jennifer as well. Using Jennifers surrogate in FBI Headquarters, Canter uses the weapon to kill Stone and proceeds to upload the virus to all surrogates, which will destroy them and kill their operators. Canter reveals that he only wanted to empower the disabled to live normal lives, but after he was fired from VSI, they capitalized on surrogacy for profit. Convinced his plan is unstoppable, Canter disconnects from Jennifers surrogate and swallows a cyanide pill. Tom takes control of Jennifers surrogate and, with the assistance of the networks system administrator, Bobby Saunders (Devin Ratray), insulates the virus so the operators will survive, but a second step is required to save the surrogates. Tom ultimately lets the virus permanently disable surrogates worldwide. People emerge from their homes without their surrogates, confused and afraid. Returning home, Tom shares an emotional embrace with Maggie in her real form. The film ends with an aerial view of the collapsed surrogates along with overlapping news reports of downed surrogates all over the world and how people are now "on their own" again.
Surrogates (film)
2009