Traveling salesman Harold Speck is approached by a man in a diner who asks him an uncomfortable question. After leaving the diner, Harold is found dead with his eyelids cut off and clutching a symbol consisting of a circle with a line through it. The murder is investigated by FBI Agent Thomas Mackelway (Aaron Eckhart), who was recently suspended for beating suspected serial killer Raymond Starkey. Mackelway receives a series of taunting faxes from someone who may be Specks killer. As the investigation proceeds, Mackelway and his partner, Fran Kulok (Carrie-Anne Moss), become aware of the possible existence of Suspect Zero, a "super serial killer" responsible for hundreds of deaths who leaves no evidence behind to link his crimes together. Another body is found in the trunk of a car bearing an M.O. similar to Specks murder. The ownership of the car is traced to a room in a halfway house occupied by Benjamin ORyan. The agents discover that the room is filled with obsessive-compulsive sketches of the crossed-circle symbol, a Bible which contains sketches of missing persons, and a book on ritual. Questioning the other occupants of the halfway house, Mackelway is told by one of them the symbol represents a zero, not a circle. Information sent by the killer leads Mackelway to ORyan (Ben Kingsley), who believes himself to be a former member of the FBI. The agents must decide if ORyan is the key to catching Suspect Zero, or if he is Suspect Zero himself. Outside a bar, ORyan kills a man who attempts to kidnap and rape a young girl. When Mackelway and Kulok arrive, they find that the body belongs to Starkey, who had been released from prison. Evidence reveals that ORyan was part of Project Icarus, a secret government project attempting to cultivate telepathic abilities in individuals for military purposes. The experiments gave ORyan the ability to see the actions of serial killers, driving him to hunt them down. ORyan demonstrates that Mackelway shares his abilities to some degree. Neither Kulok or Mackelways superiors are convinced by his theories that ORyan is chasing the killer rather than being the killer. Suspect Zero is revealed to be a man who drives cross-country in a refrigerated truck. He targets children, whom he abducts and transports to his ranch to be killed. Mackelway links these crimes by recognizing that victims had signs of freezer burns while being transported. Mackelway chases one truck driver to a carnival, only to find that the child he saw in his vision as "captured" is free. ORyan suddenly appears and captures Mackelway. After refusing to be frightened, ORyan spares Mackelway. Eventually, the two men track Suspect Zero to his ranch and find numerous shallow graves. Chasing him, both vehicles crash off the road. Kulok manages to free a child while Mackelway kills Suspect Zero. ORyan then tries to convince Mackelway to end his suffering by killing him. When Mackelway refuses, ORyan pretends to attack him, prompting Kulok to shoot him to defend her partner.
Suspect Zero
2004