Manhattan press agent Sidney Falco (Tony Curtis) has been unable to gain mentions for his clients in J.J. Hunseckers (Burt Lancaster) influential, nationally syndicated newspaper column of late because of Falcos failure to make good on a promise to break up the romance between Hunseckers younger sister Susan (Susan Harrison) and musician Steve Dallas (Martin Milner), an up-and-coming jazz guitarist. Falco is losing money and clients. Given one last chance by the bullying, intimidating Hunsecker, he schemes to plant a false rumor in a rival column that Dallas is a marijuana-smoking Communist, then encourages Hunsecker to rescue Dallass reputation, certain that the headstrong boyfriend will reject Hunseckers favor and end up looking bad to Susan. The plan works, in a way—Dallas cant resist insulting Hunseckers methods, and, forced to choose between them, the timid Susan breaks up with Dallas in order to protect him from her brother. Hunsecker, however, is enraged by Dallass insults to him after a brief confrontation. He decides to ruin the boy after all (against Falcos advice) and wants to have marijuana planted on the musician, then have him arrested and roughed up by corrupt police Lt. Harry Kello (Emile Meyer). It is such a dirty trick that even Falco wants no part of it, at least until Hunsecker promises to take a long vacation from his powerful column and turn it over to Falco in his absence. At a nightclub, Falco slips the marijuana cigarettes into a pocket of a coat belonging to Dallas, who is accosted by Kello outside the club. Falco retires to a bar where, surrounded by his industry pals, he toasts to his new cologne, the sweet smell of success. But, the festivities are interrupted when Falco is summoned to Hunseckers penthouse apartment, where he finds Susan attempting to take a header off the balcony. Hunsecker arrives and doesnt understand why Falco is there, and Falco realizes that hes been tricked but tries to play along. Until, Hunsecker starts slapping him for being alone with Susan, and then all the toothpicks in the castle come tumbling down. In a climactic confrontation, Falco reveals to Susan that it was her brother who ordered him to destroy Dallass reputation and their relationship. Hunsecker makes a call to Kello to come after Falco, who tries to flee but is caught in Times Square by the brutal cop. Back in the penthouse, Susan, her bags packed, acknowledges to her brother that she attempted suicide, considering death preferable to living with him. She walks out on him, saying that she will go to Dallas. A mortified J.J. looks at his sister from his apartment, as she walks out into the daylight.
Sweet Smell of Success
1957