Buddy Ackerman, an influential movie mogul, and Senior Vice President of Production at Keystone Pictures, hires Guy, a naïve young writer, as his assistant. Guy, who has just graduated from film school, believes that his new job is a golden opportunity. Despite warnings from Rex, the outgoing assistant who has become hardened under Buddys reign, Guy remains optimistic. Buddy turns out to be the boss from hell; he treats Guy like a slave, subjects him to public verbal abuse, and has him bending over backwards to do meaningless errands that go beyond just his work life. Guy is humiliated and forced to bear the brunt of his insults just to keep his job. Guys only solace is his new girlfriend, Dawn, a producer at Buddys firm, and the possible promise of a promotion. Buddy also takes Guys credit on a major film being produced by Dawn, getting himself promoted to President of Production at Keystone. When Buddy apparently fires Guy in a phone call, Guy snaps and takes Buddy hostage in order to exact revenge. He ties Buddy up and subjects him to severe beatings, torture and mind games. It is later revealed that due to a botched call waiting function on Buddys home phone, Guy hears Buddy and Dawn arranging a rendezvous at Buddys house, and Guy was raged into torturing Buddy for "stealing" Dawn. Once under Guys power, Buddy reveals for the first time a human, vulnerable side. He tells a tragic story about his wifes death on Christmas Eve 12 years prior and reveals that he, too, was once a bullied assistant to powerful, tyrannical businessmen and spent a decade putting up with such abuse to get to where he is today. He also reveals that abusing Guy was his way of teaching him that he must earn his success. Dawn arrives at the scene to find Guy aiming a gun at Buddy, whereupon Buddy tells Guy that he has to pull the trigger in order to get ahead in the business, as Dawn pleads with Guy to avoid shooting Buddy. After a moments indecision, Buddy screams at Guy to fire the gun, in which he hastily does. The climax of the film reveals that Guy killed Dawn (who is blamed for kidnapping and torturing Buddy), and was subsequently promoted. In the final scene, Guy coldly tells a former colleague to find out what he really wants and then do anything to get it, echoing the numerous times he has been told this by both Buddy and Dawn. During this speech, a beaten up Buddy passes by his office, makes eye contact with Guy and silently gestures to call Guy into his office for a meeting. Guy excuses himself, takes a pass on a request for dinner since he has to wrap Christmas presents and goes into Buddys office. The movie ends with Buddy shutting his office doors as other staff members pass by.
Swimming with Sharks
1994