Eloise McGarry attends the wedding of her oldest friend Francie Millner. Its discovered that she was originally maid of honor but "dropped out" two months ago after her ex boyfriend Teddy, the brides brother and the best man, broke up with her by text after two years together. Teddy is now back with his old girlfriend Nikki, who has replaced Eloise as maid of honor. At the reception, Eloise discovers she has been seated at Table 19. While she considers leaving early, she meets a man named Huck who notices her looking distressed and offers words of advice which are not well received. Eloise decides to stay and meets her table mates: Jerry and Bina Kepp, Facebook friends with the grooms father who own a chain of diners; high-schooler Renzo Eckberg, whose parents are acquaintances of the groom and who came to the wedding in the hopes of meeting a girl; Jo Flanagan, Francies childhood nanny; and Walter Thimble, the brides cousin who is currently on parole. The table debates whether table 19 is a "good table," to which Eloise responds that before getting dumped she planned half the wedding and knows for a fact that table 19 is for "guests that should have known not to show up." As the newlyweds come in the reception hall and start dancing, Eloise starts feeling insecure and accepts a dance from Huck, whom she kisses. He declines to sit down with her and she realizes he is crashing the wedding and that "Huck" isnt his real name. Although the six initially have difficulty finding anything to talk about, they swiftly band together when Jo realizes that Eloise is pregnant. The table confronts Teddy about dumping Eloise after she told him about the baby, and he reveals he dumped her because she said they would be ridiculous parents and he was tired of disappointing her. During this confrontation the wedding cake is destroyed as Eloise backs into it, knocking it onto Teddy. Bitter at this development and feeling unappreciated at the wedding, the Table 19 denizens quickly conceal the cake mishap, and go to Jos room to smoke pot and converse about their reasons for attending the wedding. Walter reveals he went to prison for stealing 125,000 from the father of the bride, but only did so because he was conned into taking it by his former friend. Renzo tells the group that the wedding is the same night as his junior prom, but his mom encouraged him to come to the wedding instead as he would "probably have a better chance of meeting someone." Jo believes that the children she has cared for have now completely forgotten about her. Going out for a walk, Jerry offers Renzo some advice about how to pick up girls, while Eloise realizes that Jo has cancer. Jo admits that she is probably due the same time Eloise will give birth. Eloise says she thinks shes having a girl and Jo asks that she not name her "Jo" as its a tough name for a girl. Bina and Jerry fight and she tells him the reason she came to the wedding was to have an affair with an old flame, who has not shown up. They fight about their marriage, and Bina heads back inside with Walter. On Jos recommendation, the six attempt to find the wedding crasher that Eloise had encountered earlier, with the aid of the wedding photographer and the hotel reception staff. They learn that "Huck" is actually the groom from another wedding. As payback, Walter steals Hucks wedding cake to replace the one they destroyed earlier. Returning to the wedding, Table 19 is visited by the bride and groom, who express genuine happiness that everyone there has attended. Francie and Eloise talk briefly, and Francie apologizes that Eloise was seated so far away from her for the reception, and Eloise decides to leave early. Francie then assures Jo that she has not forgotten her, telling a brief but touching childhood story about Teddy, inspiring the table to see him in a new light. The rest of the table tracks down Eloise and encourages her to tell him how she really feels. As the core wedding party leaves the hotel on a ferry, she shouts out an apology to him from the dock, but hes unable to hear. Eloise, Walter, Jo, and Renzo return to the wedding hall for the last of the cake. In their room, the Kepps discuss their fragile marriage and reconcile before joining the others. The mood significantly changes when Teddy suddenly appears, dripping wet from apparently jumping off the boat and swimming to shore, and asks Eloise to repeat what she was trying to yell to him. Eloise asks that they both continue to be willing to forgive each other and they reconcile. Renzo asks the band to play them another song to which everybody dances, including Teddy. A few months later, Jo has died of cancer and the Kepps are now happy and taking care of her dog. Renzo has a new girlfriend, and Walter refers to the other Table 19 guests as his family. Eloise and Teddy are together and have a son, who they have named Joe. The movie ends with Eloise and Teddy mailing birth announcements to their friends and family, including all the guests from Table 19.
Table 19
2017