Ricky Bobby is a man who grew up dreaming of going fast. While working on the pit crew of Dennit Racing driver Terry Cheveaux, Bobby acts as a replacement driver after Terry decides to take a bathroom break while in last place. After finishing third in the race, Bobby gains fame and fortune at Dennit Racing. While racing, he meets his future wife Carley, after she flashes her breasts. Years after winning several championships, Bobby persuades Dennit Racing to field a second team for his best friend Cal Naughton Jr. Bobby and Naughton become an unstoppable duo on the track, but are soon introduced to their new teammate, openly gay French Formula One driver Jean Girard. The Frenchman soon outperforms both Bobby and Naughton to become Dennit Racings latest success story. Desperate to win, Bobby exceeds his limitations and crashes at Lowes Motor Speedway. His declining performance subsequently gets him fired from his team; furthermore, Carly divorces him and marries Naughton. Bobby moves in with his mom, Lucy Bobby, and brings his two disobedient sons Walker and Texas Ranger with him while taking a job as a pizza delivery man. His luck worsens when he loses his drivers license after colliding with a woman pushing a shopping cart and hitting a police officer. Meanwhile, Grandma Lucy is determined to reform her two disrespectful grandsons. Bobbys estranged father Reese returns to remind him how to drive, using unorthodox methods such as putting a live cougar in his car. After his father leaves him again, Bobbys former assistant Susan persuades him to return to NASCAR, since it is in his nature to drive fast. They quickly develop a romantic relationship when Bobby takes Susans advice and race at Talladega Superspeedway. Bobby makes amends with Carley, Girard, and Naughton, while uniting with his pit crew chief and close friend Lucius Washington. At the start of the race, Bobby flies from last place to pass all of the drivers except Girard. In the closing laps, Naughton uses a slingshot technique for Bobby to pass Girard. The replacement driver of Bobbys Wonder Bread car causes a massive wreck that takes out the field, except Bobby and Girard. On the final lap of the race, Bobby and Girard collide before exiting their cars and running towards the finish line. As Naughton takes the checkered flag, Girard offers Bobby a handshake, but Bobby responds by kissing him on the lips. Carley asks Bobby to move back in with her and start over, but he chooses to stay with Susan instead. At the end of the event, Bobby is congratulated in the parking lot by Reese; Bobby declares that it was no longer about winning, knowing that he has a family who loves him no matter where he finishes. In a post credits scene, Grandma Lucy is shown reading a story to Walker and Texas Ranger, both having fully been disciplined by her and are now presented as polite, respectful children.
Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby
2006