Beverly Hills LAPD Lieutenant Raymond Tango (Sylvester Stallone) and Downtown Los Angeles Lieutenant Gabriel Cash (Kurt Russell) have earned themselves reputations for disrupting crime lord Yves Perrets (Jack Palance) smuggling operation in their respective jurisdictions. Perret plans an elaborate scheme to discredit and humiliate them before finally torturing them to death (he says simply having them killed is too "quick and easy"). Individually informed of a drug deal taking place later that night, the detectives meet for the first time at the location. They discover a dead, wire-tapped body just before the FBI arrive and surround the duo. Agent Wyler (Lewis Arquette) finds Cashs backup pistol with attached suppressor on the floor and arrests them. At their murder trial, Tango and Cash are incriminated by an audio tape; verified in court by Skinner (Michael Jeter), an audio expert, it appears to reveal them shooting the undercover FBI agent after discussing a drug purchase. With the evidence stacked against them, they plead no contest to a lesser charge in exchange for reduced sentences in a minimum-security prison; instead, they get transported to a maximum-security prison and are housed with many of the criminals they had each arrested. Once in prison, Tango and Cash are roused from their beds and tortured by Requin (Brion James), Perrets henchman, and a gang of prisoners, until Matt Sokowski (Phil Rubenstein), the assistant warden and Cashs former commanding officer, rescues them. Sokowski recommends that they escape and provides them with a plan, but Tango chooses not to go. When Cash tries to escape, he finds Sokowski murdered and is pursued by the guards. Tango rescues him and they head to the roof; Cash manages to zipline outside the prison walls, but Tango is attacked by Face (Robert ZDar). Tango kills him by knocking him into a transformer, electrocuting him, before also escaping. To clear their names, they decide to separate and Tango tells Cash that if he needs to contact him, he can go to the Cleopatra Club and ask for "Katherine." The detectives visit the witnesses who framed them in court. Tango intercepts Wyler, who admits to that Requin was in charge of the setup; Wyler gets killed in a car bomb while trying to escape. Cash discovers that Skinner made the incriminating tape himself; he starts destroying Skinners expensive equipment until he agrees to help exonerate them. Cash finds Katherine (Teri Hatcher), Tangos sister, but is quickly surrounded by cops; she helps Cash escape the night club by dressing him as a female. Later that night, Tango reunites with Cash and the duo are met at Katherines house by Schroeder (Geoffrey Lewis), Tangos commanding officer. He gives them Requins address and tells them they have 24 hours to find out who he works for; Tango and Cash apprehend Requin and trick him into telling them Perrets name. Cashs weapons expert friend Owen (Michael J. Pollard) lets them borrow a high-tech assault vehicle and the duo storm into Perrets headquarters to confront the crime lord. Perret kidnapped Katherine and starts a timer that will trigger the buildings automatic self-destruct procedure. After killing Perrets core security personnel, Requin holds Katherine at knifepoint but throws her aside to fight the detectives hand-to-hand. Cash kills Requin and Perret appears in a hall of mirrors and holding a gun to Katherines head; both detectives pick out the correct Perret, shooting him in the forehead. They gather Katherine and barely escape as the building explodes. They joke half-seriously about Cashs desire to date Katherine as newspaper headline announces theyve been completely vindicated.
Tango & Cash
1989