After a failed attempt at suicide, Nora King (Kathleen Crowley) regains consciousness and discovers that her building has no electricity or water, and she then wanders out into the empty, quiet streets of Chicago. Stumbling over the body of a dead woman, she encounters Frank Brooks (Richard Denning), who has just recently revived after being beaten in a robbery. The two of them try to find others in the deserted city. Hearing music from a nearby restaurant, they come upon a couple, Jim Wilson (Richard Reeves) and Vicki Harris (Virginia Grey), who are still drunk and tell them they were incapable of joining an evacuation of Chicagos population which has taken place. Proceeding as a group, they continue to search the deserted streets, coming upon a car that will not start. Another survivor, Charles Otis (Mort Marshall), sees them and tells them that the same applies to all the other cars he has tried. A growing apprehension takes hold as they begin to appreciate that they are alone with an unknown menace that has caused everyone to evacuate the city. Charles finds a newspaper in a hotel lobby that proclaims that a "mystery army" is attacking the city. In a panic, he runs out into the street, only to be killed by a death ray from a nearby alien robot. While attempting to defend the city, a military force, led by Lt. Gen. Wood (Arthur Space), sets up a command post. After Air Force bombers are easily destroyed by the advancing invaders, the use of atomic weapons is contemplated. A group of scientists, including the chief research scientist (Whit Bissell), are finally able to work on a captured robot to find out if the alien machines have any vulnerabilities. While trying to escape the attacking robots, the small band is joined by Davis (Robert Roark), a psychotic killer who has his own plans for survival. The survivors realize that there are enemies within their group as well as from outer space. Several deaths occur as they flee for their lives from the alien menace. An army unit eventually arrives that is fully equipped to effectively dispatch the invading robots, halting the invasion.
Target Earth (film)
1954