In the opening scenes, an African native village is robbed during the night, supposedly by natives, who kill two men with guns. Before a man dies, he mentions the name "Slade" over the shortwave radio. Black colouring is found on his hand so they know it is white people who did it, disguised as Africans. Tarzan arrives the next morning and learns about the raid from Sanchez, a local inspector. Tarzan hears about the name Slade and remembers him as a man who Tarzan let three of his men die during a hunt for a rogue elephant and has a grudge against him. A woman (Angie) turns up, Sanchez latest woman, flying one of his planes. Later she buzzes Tarzan in his canoe, and crashes the plane so now Tarzan is stuck with her as he goes after Slade. Slade has six henchmen and a girlfriend with him. He knows where a diamond mine is and has got his supplies for his trip by stealing them from the village. Tensions run high amongst his men; Kruger is a near-sighted ex-Nazi and a diamond expert. OBannion is an Irish rebel, a drunk and a trouble maker. Dino is a thug who decides to kill OBannion but falls foul of a wild animal and quicksand. Tarzan and Angie lose their canoe but take an overland short cut where he fells some trees into the water to stop Slades boat. Tarzan attacks them with arrows but they respond with (stolen) dynamite and Tarzan is injured. He later kills OBannion but collapses, needing Angies help. Angie is captured trying to get penicillin for Tarzan and the group continue in their boat. Tarzan recovers and follows them to the diamond mine. Toni (Slades girlfriend) dies after falling into a trap meant for Tarzan. In the cave, Kruger realizes that Slade is more interested in danger than diamonds and tries to kill him but is in turn killed when he is thrown down a well. Slade then goes out to wait for Tarzan with his prepared weapon: a metal noose for garrotting him. There is a final fight between the two on a cliff top which ends when Tarzan gets the upper hand and throws Slade off the cliff to his death. In the final shot, Tarzan watches from a distance as Angie takes Slades motorboat away to return to civilization.
Tarzan's Greatest Adventure
1959