Tarzan and his wife Jane live in the jungle, along with their domesticated chimpanzee, Cheeta. Harry Holt and his business partner Martin Arlington, leading a large party of locals, meet up with them on their way to take ivory from an elephant burial ground. Holt had visited the burial ground with Tarzan on an earlier trip to the jungle, during which he had also met Jane. Holt had sought Tarzan out, as he was the only one who knew the way to the burial ground. On this trip, Holt tries to convince Jane to return with him to civilization, by bringing her gifts such as clothing and modern gadgets. Jane tells him she would rather stay with Tarzan. She does agree to convince Tarzan to act as their guide to the burial ground. When Tarzan calls an elephant to his side, Arlington gets the idea that they can use elephants as pack animals, enabling them to haul much more ivory. When Jane tries to convince Tarzan to call more elephants, she explains to him about hauling the ivory away. Tarzan, thinking that taking the ivory is profaning the burial ground, refuses to call any more elephants. In addition, he refuses to even lead them to the burial ground, now that he knows of their intent. Arlington and Holt have everything they own tied up in this venture to get the ivory, and are frantic to continue on. Jane explains that Tarzan knows nothing about money, so that would not matter to him. Arlington asks Holt how they had found the burial ground on his first trip, and Holt explains that they had followed a dying elephant. Seizing on that idea, Arlington shoots an elephant, mortally wounding it so that it can guide them to the burial grounds. Only Janes intervention keeps Tarzan from murdering Arlington. After being abandoned by Tarzan and Jane, Arlington and Holt lead their baggage carriers, led by Saidi, a friend of Jane and Tarzans, to the burial ground, following the wounded elephant. Elephants, aware of the impending disgrace of their sacred ground, turn up in the hundreds, and threaten to exterminate Holt and Arlingtons party. Tarzan and Jane arrive in time to save them, after which Arlington feigns repentance, promising to leave the next day without the ivory. Satisfied, Tarzan agrees to lead their exit, and sends the elephants away. Early the next morning, Arlington ambushes Tarzan, shooting him out of a tree. Tarzan falls into the water, and Arlington thinks he has killed him. After Arlington leaves and returns back to the group, a hippopotamus rescues a semi-conscious Tarzan from under the water and carries him to a group of Chimpanzees, which tend to him. Tarzan has received a head wound from one of Arlingtons bullets, but it was a grazing shot, which has left him very weak. The head chimpanzee applies sap from a local plant to the wound, staunching the bleeding. Arlington returns to the group, claiming that he saw Tarzan being taken unawares by an alligator, and killed. Jane distraught over losing her love, agrees to return to civilization. With Tarzan out of the way, Arlington and Holt have their baggage carriers each take a tusk from the burial ground, and they begin to head back. Cheeta leaves Jane and goes off to look for Tarzan. Chased by a lion, Cheeta escapes and comes upon the chimpanzee group tending to Tarzan. As Tarzan recuperates, the safari makes its way through the jungle. Cheeta returns and lets Jane know that Tarzan is alive. However, shortly after the safari is confronted by a local tribe of "lion men", who kill two of the bearers, and intend to kill the entire safari. Under cover of gunfire, most of the safari makes it to the cover of some nearby caves, set into the face of a rocky cliff. The bearer who was carrying the ammunition crate is killed on the way. When Saidi makes an attempt to retrieve the crate, he is captured by the lion men. Cheeta escapes and runs off to tell Tarzan Trapped in the caves, the safari watch in horror the next morning as Saidi is staked out to a tree, as the lion men intend to use him as bait to call lions to attack the safari. When Holt rushes out to save him, he is wounded by a spear thrown by one of the lion men, who have taken up positions in the trees surrounding the glade. Wounded, he begins to free Saidi when the lions show up, who tear him and Saidi to pieces. Meanwhile, Cheeta has returned to Tarzan, who while still weak, sets off after Cheeta. The lions attempt to get at the safari in the caves, but are held off by Jane and Arlington and one of the bearers. When the bearer goes down on a ledge, Arlington goes out to save him, and he is attacked by a lion who has come from above the caves. Arlington is killed, but Jane kills the charging lion. As the large pack of lions becomes more aggressive, Tarzan and the chimpanzees arrive. The chimpanzees begin to throw the lion men out of the trees, where they are ravaged by the lions. Jane is holding off several lions, killing two of them, before she runs out of ammo. As she is about to be attacked by the last lion, Tarzan arrives and wrestles with it, killing it with his knife. Shortly after, a large herd of elephants arrives, trampling the pride of lions, killing several and running the remainder off. With the lion men and the lions routed, the elephants along with Tarzan, Jane, and Cheeta, take up the ivory and return it to the burial ground.
Tarzan and His Mate
1934