In Grandsboro, Northern California, Leigh Ann Watson is a high school student living with her single mother Faye, who works as a waitress. Leigh Anns aim is to achieve top grades to become valedictorian and leave town. However, her grade in history class is threatened by her sadistic and thoroughly vindictive teacher, Mrs. Eve Tingle. Mrs. Tingle has a special dislike for Leigh Ann and downgrades Leigh Anns well-designed project. Fellow student Luke Churner takes the final exam papers from Tingle and makes a copy. He offers Leigh Ann the papers, but she insistently refuses to cheat. Ultimately, Luke stashes the papers in Leigh Anns backpack. Tingle discovers the papers in Leigh Anns backpack, and threatens to expel her for cheating. Mrs. Tingle heads to Principal Potters office, but he has left for the day and decides to tell him in the morning. This gives Leigh Ann, her best friend, Jo Lynn Jordan, and Luke time to think of a plan to stop Mrs. Tingle. The trio head to Mrs. Tingles house that night and try to convince Mrs. Tingle that Leigh Ann is innocent. Mrs. Tingle, however, refuses to listen and hints that she believes them but does not care. Luke picks up a loaded crossbow and aims it at Mrs. Tingle, threatening her. A physical struggle ensues, the crossbow goes off, and in the ensuing mêlée, Mrs. Tingle is accidentally knocked unconscious. The students panic and tie Mrs. Tingle to her bed. Leigh Ann returns to her house and promises to return in the morning, while Luke and Jo Lynn are left to watch Mrs. Tingle in the bedroom. While under Jo Lynns watch, Mrs. Tingle regains consciousness, and playing on her guilt, asks to be untied. Mrs. Tingle immediately attacks Jo Lynn, but is restrained by Luke and is retied and gagged. The trio gathers together at Mrs. Tingles house the next morning. Jo Lynn then calls the school and impersonates Mrs. Tingle, calling in sick=. Leigh Ann and Luke go to school, leaving Jo Lynn to watch Mrs. Tingle. When they return home, the trio devises a plan to blackmail Mrs. Tingle by using fake photos of Luke and Mrs. Tingle in bed together. Meanwhile, Mrs. Tingle plays mind games with Jo Lynn, concerning her jealousy about Leigh Anns supposed relationship with Luke. Later that day, the plan goes awry when the schools gym teacher, Coach Richard Wenchell arrives and is revealed to be having an affair with her. Jo Lynn, again, impersonates Mrs. Tingle and blindfolds Coach Wenchell to hide her identity. When Wenchell passes out after a high intake of alcohol, Leigh Ann, Luke, and Jo Lynn decide to blackmail Mrs. Tingle by producing photographic evidence of her love affair with Wenchell. While Leigh Ann and Luke leave to have the pictures printed and take an unconscious Coach Wenchell home undetected, Mrs. Tingle manipulates Jo Lynn into turning against Leigh Ann by revealing to her that Leigh Ann and Luke spent the night together at a party. Distraught, Jo Lynn leaves. When Leigh Ann and Luke arrive back, Mrs. Tingle eventually reveals that she hates Leigh Ann because Leigh Ann has, unlike herself, the potential to leave their small town and experience life. In response, Leigh Ann and Luke have sex downstairs. Later, the two find Mrs. Tingles history grade book. Leigh Ann marks down her rival Trudie Tuckers top A grade down to a B, and upgrades her own C to an A+. The next day at school, Jo Lynn ignores Leigh Ann, still hurt over her betrayal. Leigh Ann tries to make amends with Jo Lynn, but admits that she had sex with Luke, further infuriating Jo Lynn, who accuses Leigh Ann of being just like Mrs. Tingle. Mrs. Tingle escapes from her bonds, ties Luke down in her place, and using the loaded crossbow, once again threatens Leigh Ann. Jo Lynn returns, now saying she will help blackmail and ruin Leigh Ann, but is revealed to be lying. After a violent fight, Mrs. Tingle picks up a crossbow and fires it wildly, trying to hit Leigh Ann. Trudie Tucker walks through the door, gets hit in the chest by the bolt, and collapses. Leigh Ann checks her pulse and says she is dead. Principal Potter arrives to check up on Mrs. Tingle and is horrified by the scene. Guilt-ridden, Tingle confesses that she shot Trudie while trying to kill Leigh Ann and wanted to make her fail. However, Trudie was protected by the thick textbook she was holding to her chest and is completely unharmed, which Leigh Ann already knew. Tingle is fired by Potter, who then calls the police. The film ends with Leigh Ann being named as valedictorian at graduation.
Teaching Mrs. Tingle
1999