Team America, a paramilitary antiterrorism force, eliminates a gang of terrorists in Paris, destroying the Eiffel Tower, Arc de Triomphe, and the Louvre in the process. The team comprises Lisa, a young psychologist; Carson, her love interest; Sarah, a psychic; Joe, a jock who is in love with Sarah; and Chris, a martial arts expert who harbors a deep hatred of actors. Carson proposes to Lisa, but a terrorist shoots him dead. Team America leader Spottswoode brings Broadway actor Gary Johnston to Team Americas base in Mount Rushmore and asks him to use his acting skills to infiltrate a terrorist cell. Unbeknownst to the team, North Korean dictator Kim Jong-il is supplying international terrorists with weapons of mass destruction. Gary infiltrates a terrorist group in Cairo, Egypt, and the team kills the terrorists. However, the city is left in ruins, drawing criticism from the Film Actors Guild, a union of liberal Hollywood actors led by Alec Baldwin. At the base, Gary tells Lisa that, as a child, his acting talent caused his brother to be killed by gorillas. While the two grow close and have sex, terrorists blow up the Panama Canal as retaliation for Cairo, which the Film Actors Guild blames on Team America. Gary, feeling his acting talents have again resulted in tragedy, leaves Team America. The remaining members depart for the Middle East, but are captured by North Korean forces. In North Korea, Kim invites the Film Actors Guild and world leaders to a peace ceremony, planning to detonate a series of bombs while they are distracted. Succumbing to depression, Gary is reminded of his responsibility by a speech from a drunken drifter. Returning to the teams base, he finds Spottswoode has survived a suicide bomb attack by Michael Moore. After regaining Spottswoodes trust by giving him a blowjob and undergoing one-day training, Gary goes to North Korea, where he uses his acting skills to infiltrate the base and free the team. They engage in a fight with the Film Actors Guild in which most of the actors are killed. After Gary uses his acting skills to save Chriss life, Chris confesses to Gary that he hates actors because when he was 19 years old, he was raped by the cast of the musical Cats. Gary goes on stage and convinces the worlds leaders to unite using the drifters speech. Kim kills Baldwin and is kicked over a balcony by Lisa. He is impaled on a Pickelhaube, exposing his true form, an enormous cockroach, which flees in a spaceship, promising to return. Gary and Lisa begin a relationship and the team reunites, preparing to combat the worlds terrorists.
Team America: World Police
2004