The cartoon opens on a wrecked golf course, which has trees chopped down or golf clubs wrapped around their trunks, hundreds of divots carved out of the ground and other scenes of devastation. As the camera pans across the golf course, we see Tom who keeps trying to hit a ball out of a gigantic divot. He finally hits the ball out on his 51st try. When Tom takes the flag out of the hole, the ball rolls in but bounces out. Tom is surprised by this, and he lifts the green to roll the ball back in, but the process continues until it is revealed that Jerry lives in the hole, and he was the one throwing the ball out. After throwing the ball directly into Toms eye, Jerry draws an eyeball on the golf ball to make it look like an eye. This enrages the cat and causes him to swing his golf club at the mouse; the club misses and wraps around the cats own neck. Jerry escapes temporarily, but is caught when Tom hits his golf ball onto Jerrys head, knocking him out. The next scene shows that Jerry is being used as a tee and Tom places a ball on his head. Tom then readies his shot, which cuts out a huge divot while Jerry somehow manages to hold onto Toms club. Tom looks around to see where his ball is, but Jerry whistles and holds up the ball. Tom then puts Jerry through the ball cleaner, and the mouse responds by spitting soapy water in Toms face. Jerry is then forced into holding the tee with the ball on it; Tom hits the ball and makes a fraudulent grin. This proves to be a mistake when the ball hits a rock, bounces right back and smashes Toms teeth. In the next scene, Toms ball is in front of two skinny, long trees. Tom cannot stand behind his ball to hit it, so he is forced to split the trees. After he hits the ball, the trees smash his head and decapitates Tom. Toms body walks around and reattaches to his head. The ball ends up in a tree and triggers a "slot machine" display. Three lemons appear on the reels; when Tom looks inside an avalanche of golf balls comes out of the tree, covering him. Annoyed at this, Tom returns to his game, but Jerry has replaced his ball with a woodpecker egg. After Tom hits the egg, the egg hatches and the bird comes back to peck on Toms head. The bird then pecks out the handle of the golf club so that the head of the club lands on Toms head. The bird mocks Tom before flying away. Tom tries to hit the real golf ball, but Jerry cuts it in half, causing it to be unable to shot. Jerry laughs at this but Tom places the shell on his head and swings at the ball-mouse, which lands right next to the hole. Jerry, with the ball still on his head, prances around the hole, and Tom blows him to the hole but Jerry does not fall in so he pokes him in after making sure that nobody is looking. Tom then takes out his scorecard and tries to figure out his score for the hole. He writes down 3 in his card, as if for Jerry, but Jerry scolds him so Tom writes 33 instead. When Tom tees off on the next hole, Jerry ties the club to Toms tail; Tom ends up flying into the hole, leaving only his head exposed. Jerry hits the ball toward Toms mouth, then whacks the cat on the head, forcing Tom to scream in pain and swallow the ball. Jerry runs away and the enraged cat emerges from the hole, but runs into his own clubs. Tom then swings a ball toward Jerry with some backspin on it, which scoops him up and brings him back to Tom. Tom hits the ball again, which sends a rectangular divot with ball and mouse through the air. When Jerry is in mid-air, he drops the golf ball, which is a bomb that apparently fails to detonate, but explodes when Tom picks it up. Meanwhile, Jerrys divot crashes into a tree which Tom pokes; in response, the mouse grabs his club and pokes back. Tom then climbs into the tree and Jerry smacks Toms back, which causes the cat to peek out right below a beehive, which Jerry places on his head. The bees swarm around Toms head, leaving him with a beard and top hat reminiscent of Abraham Lincoln. Tom slowly realizes the situation, dives out of the tree, and hides in a bush. Jerry, not wanting to be denied the pleasure of humiliating the cat, runs over the bush with a lawn mower revealing Tom shaved like a poodle dog. The bees then chase Tom over a lake, where a stick of bamboo is seen; Tom hides underwater and uses the stick like a snorkel for breathing. Jerry then whistles to get the bees attention, turns a 150 yds. sign around to say Guess Who? and points it at the bamboo stalk, which is promptly investigated by the bees. The queen bee looks through the stick to see Tom, who spits water in her face in defiance. Enraged, the queen leads the swarm on a bombing run down the stick. Jerry then places a funnel on top of the stick to assist the bees in dive-bombing through it. The water is shown for a few seconds, and then Tom jumps out and lets out a frightening scream with bees in his mouth, which ends when the water lands back in the hazard. Tom makes a run for it while Jerry takes a driver and hits the golf ball. The cartoon ends with the golf ball hitting Tom from flying a far distance, and Tom faints, which was repeated in Mouse Cleaning.
Tee for Two
1945