In April 1945, outside the titular address in the fictional town of Gibbsville, Pennsylvania, a radio reporter is describing the funeral of distinguished attorney Joseph Chapin (Gary Cooper). While his shrewish wife Edith (Geraldine Fitzgerald) delivers his eulogy, daughter Ann (Diane Varsi) thinks back to Joes fiftieth birthday celebration five years earlier. Via a flashback, we learn rebellious neer-do-well son Joby (Ray Stricklyn) has been expelled from boarding school and wants to pursue a career as a jazz musician, a decision Edith feels will harm the familys reputation. The ambitious woman is determined to get Joe elected lieutenant governor, and she uses her wealth, political connections, and social influence to achieve her goal. Threatening this ambition is Anns secret marriage to trumpet player Charley Bongiorno (Stuart Whitman), who seduced and impregnated the naive girl. Corrupt power broker Mike Slattery (Tom Tully) and district attorney Lloyd Williams (Philip Ober) intervene. They threaten to charge Charley with statutory rape if he refuses to accept their bribe and agree to an annulment. Shortly after, Ann suffers a miscarriage, and when she learns her father condoned the deal that drove her husband away, she leaves home and moves to New York City. Fearing repercussions from Anns situation, party leaders refuse to back Joe in the election. He withdraws from the race, much to Ediths dismay. Angry with her husband, she reveals she once had an affair with Lloyd and bitterly tells him she wasted her life ministering to a failure. Deeply depressed by the turn of events, Joe begins to drink heavily. On a business trip, he meets Anns roommate, model Kate Drummond (Suzy Parker). The two fall into a relationship, and during a weekend getaway Joe presents her with a ruby, a Chapin family heirloom. When the young womans friends mistake Joe for her father, he realizes that hes unable to handle their huge age difference and ends the affair. Joes alcoholism takes its toll on his health but he refuses medical attention. Learning her father is dying, Ann returns home. Joe asks her about Kate. She tells him her roommate is about to wed, although she suspects Kate is in love with another man. Just before he dies, Joe realizes the man is himself. At the funeral, Joby angrily accuses Slattery of betrayal and Edith of being responsible for Joes decline. Later, just prior to Kates wedding, Ann is helping her friend pack when she finds the ruby. She realizes her father was Kates true love and that he experienced a brief period of happiness during his final years.
Ten North Frederick (film)
1958