Millionaire hotel mogul Ray Hunter (Dean Martin) flies to Rome to buy another property, the Regent. He is picked up at the airport by lovely Maria Martelli (Eva Bartok), who works for the hotels owner, the Countess Alzani. Ray is reproached by the Countess for the impersonal way he buys up hotels this way, piling up "ten thousand bedrooms" and replacing employees without a second thought. He sincerely promises not to do so with the staff of the Regent. Maria is impressed and volunteers to be Rays translator while in town. He meets the Martelli family, including Papa Vittorio (Walter Slezak) and his other daughters. Marias youngest sister, 18-year-old Nina (Anna Maria Alberghetti), takes an almost immediate liking to Ray. Marias current romantic interest is Anton (Paul Henreid), a poor Polish count who fancies himself a sculptor. Nina, meanwhile, tries to catch Rays eye, while his private pilot Mike (Dewey Martin) is trying to catch hers. Nina sees the sights with Ray and wants to marry him, so she asks her father for permission. Papa Martelli forbids it, saying in this family all of the eldest daughters must be married before the youngest can. Ray tries to speed up that process. He sends for two eligible bachelors from America on the pretense of business. They are quickly introduced to two other sisters of Maria and Nina. But when he makes the mistake of buying Antons artwork in order to make the poor count feel worthy of proposing to Maria, it backfires. Maria is furious and Ray apologizes with a kiss. Suddenly realizing he is involved with the wrong sister, Ray is in a fix. At a party, Papa Martelli is rushed into saying Ray is engaged to daughter Nina, which upsets Mike so much that he decides to leave. Ray hurriedly urges Mike to stay and fight for the girl he loves. It takes some doing, but everything finally works out. Ray finds a job for Anton that involves him traveling to Bombay for a long period of time. Meanwhile, he persuades Maria that hes sincere, and next thing you know, Papa Martelli is planning four weddings.
Ten Thousand Bedrooms
1957