Working in the privacy of his Florida island estate, nuclear physicist Professor Howard Erling and his assistant Victor constructs a machine that transports a small statue from the future. Concerned over the vast amounts of energy needed to conduct the experiments and realizing their work needs verification from another professional, Howard calls a halt to the research, despite Victors protests. The statue is sent to premiere archeologist Bob Hedges, who determines it comes from the year 5,000 A. D. Bob learns that the statue is radioactive and attempts to contact Howard to question him about it. When he is unable to reach Howard by phone, Bob flies to Florida to see him. Upon leaving the airport in a rental car, Bob realizes that he is being followed. After a wild chase, Bob confronts his pursuer only to discover it is Claire Erling, Howards daughter and Victors fiancée. Claire is delighted by Bobs arrival and admits to sending the statue in hopes of accelerating the verification of her fathers long work. Claire assures Bob that neither the Erlings or Victor were aware of the radiation contamination. As Claire and Bob pilot a small motorized boat out to the island, the motor dies and Claire reveals this is caused by the power drain from her fathers lab. Unknown to Claire and Howard, Victor is conducting further experimentation in secret, against Howards orders. Howard receives Bob at the house graciously, but Victor is resentful, suspecting that the archeologist intends to refute their work. When the guest room is discovered locked and the key missing, Victor offers to share his room with Bob until the handyman, Angelo, can provide a new key. That night, Bob hears Victor enter the guest room next door and follows as Victor removes two metal suitcases from the guest room, then takes them outside where he throws them into a pond. The next morning, Bob accepts Claires swimming invitation and dives at the spot where Victor disposed of the suitcases. Underwater, Bob locates one suitcase and finds inside the carcass of a small animal. Later, Howard shows Bob the lab and demonstrates how he and Victor have succeeded in "trading objects with the future." Howard sends a small bottle through the machine and receives a similar object back. Bob suggests sending something unusual and submits his fraternity key. The men are startled when a coin from the future materializes with the words "save us" in Greek engraved upon it. That night after the others retire, Victor sneaks down to the lab and continues his experiment by increasing the power level. The higher power results in a human form materializing that grabs Victor. Meanwhile, Howard and Bob investigate when Claire sees something unusual from her window. Victor manages to return the figure to the future, although he suffers a serious gash on his arm. Howard and Bob discover that Angelo has been voyeuristically watching Claire and after Bob tells Claire, he comes across spots of blood outside of the guest room door. When Bob reports Victors unusual behavior to Howard the next morning, Howard demands evidence. Bob goes to the pond to retrieve the suitcases, but Victor intercepts him and tries to stop him. Howard, Angelo and Claire break up the mens fight and when Howard requests an explanation, Bob reveals Victors radiation burned arm. Despite Victors objections, Howard, Bob, and Claire take him to the hospital, where the doctor asks them to return in a few hours to give him time to examine Victor. While the Erlings take Bob to a movie, Victor flees from the hospital and drinks at a bar until he is thrown out. A drunk Victor returns to the island, breaks into the lab, and resumes working with the machine at high power levels. Meanwhile, Howard, Bob, and Claire stop at the bar and find that Victor was there most of the afternoon. When the bars television reception goes out, Howard realizes Victor has turned on the time machine. As the Erlings and Bob race back to the island, Victor succeeds in bringing a human form from the future, but is knocked out by the mysterious arrival. Finding Victor dazed, Howard summons a doctor who orders a nurse to come out and tend to Victor. The time traveler explores the island surroundings, but when confronted by Angelo, it kills him. Unaware of the travelers presence, Bob succeeds in retrieving one of the metal suitcases from the pond, which contains the cadaver of a four-eyed cat. Returning to the house, Howard and Bob stumble upon Angelos body. After Victor tells them about the time traveler, Howard confronts Victor with the cat, declaring it the result of radiation mutation. The nurse arrives on the island and is confronted by the traveler, a woman, who addresses the nurse in Greek. When the nurse flees, the traveler attacks and kills her, then uses a device to duplicate the nurses facial features. After gaining entrance into the Erling house, the traveler sits with Victor while the men don radiation proof gear and search for the time traveler. The traveler hypnotizes Victor to induce him to return with her to the future where his healthy genes are needed to save her people from extinction. Attracted by noises in the lab, Claire is shocked to find Victor and the traveler reviving up the time machine. In an attempt to break the hypnotic spell on Victor, Claire attacks the traveler and pulls the mask from her face, revealing her radiation-scarred features. Having discovered the faceless body of the real nurse, Howard and Bob return to the lab. They find Victor defending Claire from the traveler until he and the traveler tumble against the machine, which electrocutes and kills them both. Afterward, Bob and Claire wonder if one of them should go to the future to help. Howard insists that by changing the present they can battle against an atomic holocaust future.
Terror from the Year 5000
1958