In the mid-1990s, four teenagers—Jenny, Heather, Barry, and Sean—are celebrating during their senior prom. Heather finds Barry, her boyfriend, making out with another girl and attempts to drive away in his car alongside Jenny and Sean. After Barry eventually gains access into the car, Heather scolds him angrily. The four are forced to take a detour off the freeway, and Heather makes a wrong turn, driving them into a remote area. Distracted after thinking she sees someone standing in the woods, Heather crashes into another driver, who passes out in the ensuing confusion. The four decide that Sean look after the driver, while the others look for help. Heather, Barry, and Jenny discover a rural real estate office occupied by Darla, an insurance agent, who calls up her boyfriend Vilmer, a tow truck driver, to help them. Meanwhile, Heather and Barry are separated from Jenny. Vilmer eventually arrives at the scene of the crash, where he snaps the drivers neck and chases Sean in his pickup, eventually running him over. Meanwhile, Heather and Barry come across a dilapidated farmhouse. Barry goes to the front and is confronted by W.E., Vilmers brother. While waiting on the porch, Heather is captured by Leatherface, who stuffs her inside a meat locker. Meanwhile, W.E. lets Barry into the house, but Barry then discovers human remains in the bathroom and is killed by Leatherface with a sledgehammer. Leatherface then removes Heather from the meat locker and hangs her on a meathook afterwards. Jenny returns to the crash site and meets Vilmer, who shows her the bodies of Sean and the driver, and then chases her in his truck, but she escapes into the woods. She is then attacked by Leatherface, wielding a chainsaw; after a long chase, Jenny retreats back to Darlas office, begging for help. However, W.E., now revealed to be Darlas accomplice, arrives and subdues Jenny, and they take her to the family home. After an unsuccessful escape attempt, Jenny falls unconscious and awakens at a dinner table with the family, during which Vilmer has a mental breakdown and beats W.E. over the head with a hammer, knocking him unconscious. They are joined by a mysterious suited man named Rothman, a member of a secret organization responsible for many of the worlds major events and for hiring the family in a conspiracy to show their victims "the true meaning of horror". Rothman criticizes the family for botching their mission with Jenny, before leaving. In response, a furious Vilmer crushes Heathers skull, killing her. Jenny tries to escape, but is held down by Vilmer as Leatherface prepares to kill her. However, she manages to dislocate Vilmers knee and escapes. Fleeing to the main road, Jenny is helped by an elderly couple, but their RV is turned over by Vilmer and Leatherface, forcing Jenny to again flee. Eventually, an airplane operated by one of Rothmans colleagues swoops over head and grazes Vilmers skull with its blade, killing him. A black limousine appears, and Jenny enters it only to discover Rothman inside. Rothman tells Jenny that her experience was supposed to be spiritual, but that it went awry and that Vilmer had to be stopped. She is dropped off at a hospital, where police question her.
Texas Chainsaw Massacre: The Next Generation
2003