The scene opens with a fragment of the song "I Tipped My Hat (and Slowly Rode Away)". Tom, at a Texas ranch, lifts a flower pot to reveal a cowering Jerry. Jerry flees, but Tom casually catches him with his lasso, with Jerry getting impaled by a spur and a cactus. Jerry whacks Tom with a cactus leaf to escape. Tom grabs the lasso, but crashes into a post. Tom catches the mouse again and pulls out a revolver, but Jerry blows the bullets into Toms mouth, kicks the gun out of Toms hand and hits him in the back of the head, causing the bullets to detonate. Tom goes to exact revenge, but an attractive cowgirl cat is dropped off at a saloon, and Tom instantly falls in love with her. Tom gets dressed and tries to impress the cowgirl, rolling tobacco onto a piece of paper and using Jerrys tongue to close it, Tom smokes it to spell "Howdy". Tom then pulls out a guitar and while playing it sings "If Youre Ever Down in Texas, Look Me Up" for her but secretly has a hidden record player playing the song for him (performed by Phil Harris) However, Jerry alters the speed of the record player to make the cat change his lip sync speed accordingly causing Tom to knock Jerry out with his guitar. Jerry gets revenge by using a tree sapling to launch a branding iron at Tom, striking him in the posterior. Tom leaps into the air and cools off in a water trough and then chases after Jerry. Tom tries to lasso the mouse, and catches Jerry, but Jerry manages to throw the lasso around the horn of an observing bull. Tom pulls the bull to him, thinking he is Jerry and dragging him through a haystack, then grapples inside to find the mouse but instead wrenches one of the bulls horns out. Realizing his (likely soon-to-be fatal) mistake, the cat chuckles nervously and blows a cavalry charge on the horn like a trumpet before reattaching it to the bull and turning it the right way, hoping this will assuage the bull. Supremely and understandably ticked off, the bull lets out an enraged bellow and charges with the cat on his horns, intending to crush him against a nearby tree. Just before impact, Tom grabs one of the trees branches to make the bull crash into the trunk, briefly knocking himself out. Tom hides behind a gate, but the bull plows right through it (leaving Tom staring in horror at the hole where his torso used to be) and briefly stops to switch his original horns with a much larger pair before resuming his pursuit of the cat. Tom hides inside a hen house, but with his new horns, the bull rips it off the ground, scaring the hens away. Tom attempts to imitate a hen by clucking, but when the bull obviously isnt fooled, chucks an egg into the bulls face and legs it with the enraged animal in pursuit, but soon finds himself cornered (due to an endless fence blocking his path.) With the bull rapidly approaching, Tom is forced to accept his fate by putting on a blindfold and smoking a cigarette as the bull plows into him, sending Tom flying onto the roof of the ranch house before sliding down the drainpipe and being deposited in front of the cowgirl. Jerry, now also wearing his cowboy outfit, excitedly runs up to the cowgirl, giving her a big kiss, jumps onto Tom and rides off into the sunset on his back.
Texas Tom
1950