Thank God Its Friday tells several intertwining stories of the patrons and staff of the fictional Los Angeles disco nightclub The Zoo over the course of a single Friday evening. These persons include: Tony Di Marco – owner of The Zoo. Lecherous and promiscuous, hes inordinately fond of his car. Bobby Speed – the clubs DJ, whos broadcasting his first live show from the club. Frannie and Jeannie – two high school friends who want to win The Zoos dance contest to buy KISS concert tickets. Carl and Ken – hopelessly near-sighted shlub looking for a casual liaison, and his friend looking for a girlfriend. Dave and Sue – a young married couple celebrating their fifth wedding anniversary. Jackie – dental hygienist by day, drugged-out disco freak and Zoo regular by night. Jennifer and Maddy – the new girl in town taken to the disco by her know-it-all friend whos not as sophisticated as she thinks she is. Nicole Sims – an aspiring disco singer. Marv Gomez – a self-described "leatherman" who lives to dance. Malcolm Floyd – the roadie for The Commodores, responsible for delivering their instruments to the club by midnight. Gus and Shirley – a mismatched couple on a blind date. Sue insists her uptight accountant husband Dave take her to the disco. On a bet with Bobby, Tony tries to pick up Sue. Dave is drugged and renamed "Babbakazoo" by Jackie, and makes a fool of himself. Carl and Ken are repeatedly thwarted in their attempts to meet girls. Frannie and Jeannie trick Marv into helping them sneak into the disco after several failed attempts at gaining entry. Jennifer tries to meet a guy, but Maddy vetoes each of the guys Jennifer is attracted to. Nicole repeatedly attempts to slip into the DJ booth to get Bobby to play her single. Crude garbage collector Gus is horrified that the dating service has matched him with a prim college educated woman, and one who is taller than he is. Floyd gets stopped repeatedly by the police on suspicion of stealing The Commodores instruments. Marv teaches the uptight Ken how to dance. Maddy ditches Jennifer to attend a hot tub party (with the same sleazy guys who came on to Jennifer). Gus and Shirley decide to give it a try. Carl finally meets a girl, but becomes trapped in a stairway before they can leave together. Floyd makes it to the club in time for the Commodores to play but before they go on, Nicole sneaks up on stage and scores a huge triumph singing "Last Dance". Frannie, after tricking Marvs dance partner into the locked stairway, enters the dance contest with Marv. Carl and Marvs dance partner hook up in the stairway. Jennifer and Ken share a romantic dance, as do Nicole and Bobby. Dave comes down and Sue ditches Tony. Tonys parked car, having taken innumerable hits from pretty much every other characters car, falls apart in the parking lot. Marv and Frannie win the big dance contest. Deciding that the KISS concert is "kid stuff," Frannie and Jeannie, now self-proclaimed "disco queens," go with Marv to hit another disco for the 1:00 AM dance contest.
Thank God It's Friday (film)
1978