A mother duck is sleeping on her nest of eggs, but one of the egg suddenly rolls from the nest and begins to hatch. The duckling, Quacker, slips under a sleeping Tom outside and hatches underneath him, causing Quacker to assume Tom as his mother. While the duckling snuggles next to his "mommy", Tom places two sticks across a fire and ties Quacker to another stick, intending to spit-roast him. Jerry walks in, and horrified by the sight, rescues Quacker by placing Toms tail on the rotisserie. Jerry unties Quacker, but Quacker mistakes him for a kidnapper and cries for Toms help. After Quacker runs back to Tom for comfort, Tom decides to inherit his mistaken role to keep a hold of the duckling and try to eat him. Quacker is watching Tom make pastry in the kitchen, which Tom uses as an oven bed for the duckling. After Tom closes the oven, Jerry smacks him with a broomstick and knocks him unconscious with the oven door. Jerry grabs Quacker, but the duckling once again fights him off and runs back to Tom, reviving him with water. The now conscious Tom angrily grabs Quacker, but Quacker kisses him and calls him a "nice mommy". Tom then makes "Stuffed Roast Duckling", giving Quacker a giant bowl of pudding to eat to make him stuffed. Tom then places Quacker back in the oven next to vegetables, but Jerry comes to the rescue and uses a can opener to cut the door open. Quacker promptly starts throwing the vegetables at Jerry. Jerry carries the angry duckling into his mousehole to explain that Tom is not his mother, but Quacker stubbornly refuses to believe him, slamming the book shut onto Jerry before running away. When Tom notices Jerry chasing after Quacker, he traps the mouse in a jar, ties it shut with string and then throws it down a well. Still determined to eat Quacker, Tom then makes "Stewed Duck". Quacker then grabs the spoon off him, wanting to give him a rest, but then sees that a duckling is part of the recipe and finally realizes that Tom wants to eat him. Deeply saddened, Quacker voluntarily prepares to jump into the pot to cook himself and make his "mommy" happy, telling Tom that he loves him. However, Tom has a change of heart and saves Quacker by grabbing him mid-air. Feeling guilty after the ducklings love towards him, Tom hugs Quacker and literally cries rivers of tears. Jerry manages to escape from the jar and return to the house, but then is stunned when he looks outside, seeing Tom and Quacker swimming across the nearby duck pond, with Tom having adopted the duckling as his own child. As a cartoon ends, the pleased duckling exclaims to Jerry: "Thats my mommy!".
That's My Mommy
1955