A beautiful, sophisticated New York woman who goes by the name Dunreath Henry (Eva Marie Saint) seems to have it all. She is not only the private secretary to the wealthy and popular cartoonist Larry Larkin (George Sanders), she is also his fiancee. But back in Port Huron, Michigan when she was a girl, she was plain old Ethel Jankowski. And she used to be married to another cartoonist, the talented but neurotic Francis X. Dignan (Bob Hope), who was once an associate of the famed Al Capp. One day, when Larkins syndicate complains that his boy-and-dog comic strip "Snips and Runty" hasnt been as funny as it used to be, Dunreath hatches a scheme. Larry is leaving on a business trip and she is busy planning their honeymoon, so why not hire Dignan to ghost-write the strip? Dignan doesnt want to do it and certainly cant stand the snooty Larkin, but he needs the money for his psychiatrist, who is trying to find out why any setback or stress leads to Dignan experiencing a bad case of nausea. A lot of interesting developments take place in Larkins Manhattan penthouse while the cartoonist is away. Dignans strips are humorous and a hit. Old feelings begin to stir in Dunreath, having him around. Larkins housekeeper, Gussie, begins to play matchmaker. A young orphan, Norman, arrives one day because Larkin intends to adopt him. Dignan is impressed until he discovers that Larkins interested only in the publicity, not in the child. The TV program Person to Person is coming to do a live interview, so Larkin wants a cute boy and happy puppy there by his side, just like his cartoon figures Snips and Runty. Dignan is offended. He is supposed to find a small dog for Larkin, but instead brings home one called Happy, a gigantic hound. Dignan also draws a cartoon using Larkins name portraying Snips as a juvenile delinquent. And if that werent enough, Larkin comes home to find Dignan and Dunreath dressed in matching pajamas, each having drunk one too many martini. Larkin fires Dignan just before the live TV appearance, which Dignan proceeds to interrupt by declaring his love for Larkins fiancee. Dunreath decides to dump her betrothed and her fancy new name and live happily ever after with Dignan, Norman and Happy.
That Certain Feeling (film)
1956