In 1984, middle school student Donny Berger begins a sexual relationship with his teacher, Mary McGarricle. When this relationship is discovered, she is sentenced to a maximum penalty prison term of 30 years, where she is revealed pregnant. Custody of the unborn child is given to Donnys abusive father until Donny turns 18 to assume full custody. In 2012, Donny is a broke, alcoholic slacker who spends his time with his friends, local drunk Kenny, bartender Brie and her stripper mother Champale. Donny is now estranged from his son Han Solo who, embarrassed by his parents scandalous past and also Donnys immaturity, has changed his name to Todd Peterson to avoid discovery of his parentage. Todd, a successful businessman, has recently arrived at the Cape Cod house of his boss, where he is to marry his fiancée, Jamie Martin. Donny learns from his lawyer, Jim Nance, that he owes $43,000 to the IRS in back-taxes and will be imprisoned for three years if he doesnt repay the money by the end of the weekend. However, Nance has him place a $20 bet on an 8000:1 contestant named Tubby Tuke in the following Mondays Boston Marathon. In spite of this, Donny realizes that he may need a back-up plan should Tubby Tuke lose. He visits TV producer Randall Morgan, who had produced shows for Donny during his brief period of celebrity, and Morgan offers him $50,000 if he can organize a reunion with Todd and Mary at the womens prison. Donny arrives at Cape Cod to try to convince Todd to participate. Todd had previously told people his parents were dead, so he introduces Donny as an old friend. Donny quickly becomes well-liked by the others, much to the chagrin of Todd and at the expense of his popularity. Donny tries to convince Todd to see his mother at the womens prison, without revealing that it is for a TV show, but he refuses. Todd fights constantly with Donny about his fathers immaturity. Donny admits his mistake by revealing he was young and didnt know how to be a father since his own never taught him how. Todd eventually imitates his fathers behavior, including engaging in a fight with Father McNally, cancelling the church rehearsal. Before Jamies family could blame Todd, Donny saves him by convincing his future in-laws to have the wedding rehearsal away from churches because Todd is still going through a tragedy from one that killed his parents. Donny joins Todd and his friends at Todds bachelor party, a relaxing day at a spa. However, Donny convinces the guys to attend a strip club where over the course of the night, Todd eventually agrees to meet his mother at the womens prison. Donny, knowing a TV crew will be there tries to stop the meeting, but Todd goes anyway. As Mary, Donny, and Todd have a personal moment with each other, they are ambushed by Randall Morgans TV crew, forcing a disgusted Todd to leave without signing a release form, leaving Donny without any money. Donny overhears Jamie on the phone with Todds boss, Steve Spirou, having a conversation that implies theyve been sleeping together behind Todds back. He tries to warn Todd, but Jamie comes up with a convincing cover story that fools Todd. With some encouragement from Kenny, Donny attempts to patch things up with Jamie, but instead discovers her with Chad having sex at a hotel room. Realizing that she could lose Todd if Donny tells him about her sexual affair with both Chad and Steve, she gives him a $50,000 check in order to keep him quiet. Despite Jamies hush money, Donny has to stop the wedding. With the help of Vanilla Ice, his friend from his celebrity days, they make it to the wedding in time. Donny reveals himself to be Todds father, rips up Jamies check and forces her to admit her actions behind Todds back. Todd breaks up with Jamie, accepts Donny as his father, and takes back his birth name of Han Solo Berger. At the strip club the following day, Han reveals himself to be dating Brie and offers Donny the money to pay for his unpaid taxes. Donny turns down the offer, accepting its time for him to take responsibility for his actions. He prepares to go to prison to rekindle his relationship with Mary after his term is over, but the bet he placed on Tubby Tuke wins him $160,000, keeping him out of prison.
That's My Boy (2012 film)
2012