Antoine (Kadeem Hardison) and Kenny Tyler (Marlon Wayans), two close brothers, play a basketball game in 1986. Their motto for each other is "A&K: All the Way", created by their mother. Their father, James, coaches the team and directs Kenny to take the last shot for the win, but he passes the ball to Antoine out of fright, who misses and costs them the game. That night, Kenny tries to cheer Antoine up, still upset about missing the shot. James tells them that all they have to do is stick together and anything can happen. Shortly after, James has a conversation alone with Kenny, encouraging him to take risks and not to be afraid of missing. In the present day, both Antoine and Kenny are a famed duo on their University of Washington college basketball team, the Huskies. Celebrating their most recent win at a nightclub, Kenny meets R.C. St. John (Michael Michele), a reporter for UW, with whom he sparks an interest in. During a road game at UCLA, Antoine scores a slam dunk before suffering a heart attack while hanging on the rim. Coach Pederson (David Paymer) informs Kenny and the team after the game that Antoine has died. Without Antoine, the team begins falling apart. During one game, however, odd sequences begin to occur, leading to a surprising win. Antoine appears to Kenny in the locker room, revealing he aided the team supernaturally, and explains that the reason hes back is because Kenny called him. Kennys teammates begin to question his concerning behavior (as only Kenny can see Antoine), and he informs his teammates about Antoines reemergence, who are skeptical until Antoine uses supernatural forces to persuade them. Under Antoines influence, the team storms through the competition and eventually make it to the NCAA tournament, for the first time in over a decade. Meanwhile, Kennys relationship with R.C. deepens, despite Antoines efforts to disband the two, believing R.C. is only out to get a story on him, which is partially true. R.C. originally prepares to submit a story to the paper when Kenny discloses to her that Antoine is aiding the team, but eventually decides against it. The rest of the team begin to have misgivings about Antoine helping them in their games. Kenny informs Antoine, who becomes irate, and wrecks the room theyre in. After calming down, Antoine relents to Kenny that he never wanted to pass away. Kenny tells the team he wants Antoine to stay, because he doesnt want to lose his brother again. However, in the Final Four against Georgetown, Antoines antics seriously injure their All-American, Jerrod Smith (Flex), a close friend of Kennys. While Kenny visits Jerrod at the hospital, R.C. arrives and knows its because of Antoine, having discovered his spirit and clues in a games footage. R.C. tells Kenny that hes letting Antoine run his life even in death, and will never truly live unless he lets Antoine go. Kenny tells Antoine not to interfere during the championship game with the team by his side, or they will voluntarily forfeit. Disappointed, Antoine leaves, but lingers nearby. The team plays poorly in the first half of the game. At halftime, Kenny gives a speech to fire the team up, telling them that they still have Antoine in their hearts, with the coach and Antoine proud that Kenny has finally stepped up as a leader. The team goes back in the second half with an impressive rally to bring the game close. Kenny attempts the game winning shot. Antoine tries to help, but Kenny tells him not to, making the shot on his own and the Huskies win the championship for the very first time. His job completed, Antoine makes his way back to Heaven after one final moment with his brother, where he reminds Kenny that he will always be with him. As Kenny celebrates with his team, Antoine goes off into the distance under an array of lights. Coach Pederson sees this and asks Kenny if this was Antoine, to which Kenny admits, finally able to say "A&K all the way".
The 6th Man
1997