Michelangelo Buonarroti (Charlton Heston) is a renowned sculptor of the Republic of Florence in the early 16th century. When Pope Julius II (Rex Harrison) commissions him to paint the Sistine Chapel, Michelangelo resists because he finds the ceilings paneled layout of the Twelve Apostles uninspiring. Nonetheless, he is forced into taking the job. During the initial attempt, Michelangelo is discontent with the results and destroys the frescoes. He flees to Carrara and then into the mountains, where he finds inspiration from nature. Michelangelo returns and is allowed to paint the entire vault in a variety of newly designed biblical scenes. The work proceeds nonstop, even with Mass in session, as months turn to years. Michelangelos work is threatened when he collapses due to fatigue. He is nursed back to health by Contessina de Medici (Diane Cilento), daughter of his old friend Lorenzo de Medici. After recovering, Michelangelo returns to work after learning he is at risk of being replaced by Raphael (Tomas Milian). Meanwhile, the Papal States are threatened during the War of the League of Cambrai. Preparing for battle and having reached the limits of his patience, the Pope terminates Michelangelos contract. Raphael, impressed with the work in progress, asks Michelangelo to show humility and finish the ceiling. When the injured and weakened Pope returns, Michelangelo pleads for him to restore the patronage. Though the Pope believes an invasion of Rome is inevitable, he raises the money needed to resume work on the ceiling. One night, Michelangelo finds the ailing Pope inspecting the portrait of God in The Creation of Adam, which the Pope declares "a proof of faith." He then collapses and becomes bedridden. Though everyone assumes that the Pope will die, Michelangelo goads him into having the will to live. The tide of war turns in favor of the Papal States, as allies pledge to assist the Pope. A Mass is held in which the congregation is shown the completed ceiling. After the ceremony, Michelangelo asks to begin carving the Popes tomb. Realizing he has a short time to live, the Pope agrees. Together, the men admire the masterpiece of the Sistine Chapel.
The Agony and the Ecstasy (film)
1965