Kathleen Conklin (Taylor), a young philosophy student at New York University, is attacked by a woman (Annabella Sciorra) called "Casanova", who tells Kathleen to "order me to go away" and, when Kathleen is unable to do so, bites her neck and drinks her blood. Kathleen develops several of the traditional symptoms of vampirism, including aversion to daylight and distaste for food. The film follows her degradation. It is hinted that vampires become immortal in this film but the price is an addiction to blood. Vampires are shown blaming their victims for not being strong enough to resist them. Kathleen meets an anthropology student (Kathryn Erbe), who becomes her victim. After Kathleen drinks her a blood and she weeps incredulously, Kathleen coldly informs her: "My indifference is not the concern here, its your astonishment that needs studying". Kathleen later meets Peina (Walken), a vampire who claims to have almost conquered his addiction and as a result is almost human. For a time he keeps her in his home trying to help her overcome hers, recommending she read William S. Burroughs Naked Lunch. At her graduation party, Kathleen ominously announces, "Id like to share a little bit of what Ive learned". She, Casanova, Jean and some of Kathleens other victims attack the family, friends, faculty and other attendees in a bloody, chaotic orgy. Afterwards, Kathleen, apparently overdosed from the bloody bacchanal and looking wracked with regret, wanders the streets. She ends up in a hospital and asks the nurse to let her die. The nurse says no one will let her die. Kathleen decides to commit suicide by asking the nurse to open the curtains. Kathleen is confronted by Casanova, who stops her suicide attempt and quotes Sproul to her. Kathleen gives in to her new fate and in the final scene, she is shown walking away from a grave with her name on it, in broad daylight. Her birth date on the tombstone is October 31, 1967 and the date of her death is November 1, 1994. The movie ends with Kathleen quoting the line: "self revelation is annihilation of self".
The Addiction
1995