In the early morning hours on November 13, 1974, Ronald DeFeo Jr. murders his entire family with a shotgun at their home in Amityville, New York. One year later, George and Kathy Lutz, a young married couple, move into the property. George appears not to be strong of faith, but Kathy is a Catholic in name at least. She has three children from her prior marriage: Greg, Matt, and Amy. The couple turn to Father Delaney to bless the home, but Delaney encounters troubles in trying to bless the home, including a room full of flies, out of season; violent stomach sickness; and later, blisters on his palm when trying to make a phone call to Kathy at their home. As he continues to help the Lutz Family, Delaney experiences more strange events (his car brakes and steering malfunction) and frustrations (lack of support by his superiors in the diocese). He ultimately appears to lose faith, becoming blind and having a breakdown. Kathys aunt, a nun, comes by the house one afternoon, but becomes violently ill. George begins to be more sullen and angry over perceived cold in the house, and obsesses with splitting logs and keeping the fireplace stoked. Before Kathys brothers engagement party one night, $1,500 to be used for the caterer inexplicably goes missing in the house. Meanwhile, the babysitter watching Amy for the evening is locked inside a bedroom closet by an unseen force. Further unexplained incidents occur with one the two boys suffering a crushed hand when a sash window falls on it, and Amy having an imaginary friend, Jody, who seems to be of a malevolent nature. Kathy catches a glimpse of two red, swine-like eyes outside the daughters second-story bedroom window. Even the family dog obsesses over a secret room in the basement. Georges land surveying business begins to suffer with his lack of attendance, and his partner grows concerned. His business partners wife, very sensitive to the paranormal, is both repulsed and intrigued by the things she feels when at the house. Throughout the strange incidents, Kathy observes Georges persistent waking up at 3:15 a.m., feeling he must go check on the boathouse. She also has nightmares, in which she is given details about the killings of the homes prior family. Research at the library and county records office suggest that the house is built atop a Shinnecock burial ground and that a known Satanic worshipper named John Ketchum had once lived on the land. She also discovers the news clippings about the DeFeo murders and notices Ronald DeFeos striking resemblance to George. Finally, the paranormal events culminate one stormy night and drive the family to flee, abandoning their home and belongings. The final titles reads: "George and Kathleen Lutz and their family never reclaimed their house or their personal belongings. Today they live in another state."
The Amityville Horror (1979 film)
1982