Italian woodcarver Geppetto carves a heart into a pine tree, expressing his secret love for a woman named Leona. When he leaves, lightning strikes the tree, imbuing the heart with magic. Years later, an older Geppetto finds the remains of the tree and carves a puppet out of it, naming him Pinocchio. Due to the hearts magic, Pinocchio comes to life, referring to Geppetto as his father. Pinocchio chases a pigeon outside, meeting Leona, and then a pair of thieves, Volpe and Felinet, who work for Lorenzini, a sinister theater director and puppet master, informing him of Pinocchios existence and sentience. Lorenzini tries to purchase Pinocchio, but Geppetto refuses to sell his son. Pinocchio climbs out of a window and wanders into town, joining a group of boys in school. He gets into a fight with the rowdy Lampwick, and when he lies about it, his nose grows longer, and he is kicked out of the class. In bitterness, Pinocchio ends up causing damage to a local bakery, and Geppetto is arrested as a result. Pinocchio flees home, meeting a talking cricket, Pepe, who tells Pinocchio to behave in order to become a real boy. The next day, Pinocchio and Geppetto are put on trial. Unless Geppetto pays a fine, he will be imprisoned. Lorenzini enters, offering to pay off the debt if Pinocchio is given over to him. Geppetto reluctantly agrees after being reminded of his poor state. Pinocchio becomes the star of Lorenzinis shows and is given gold coins as payment. However, Pepe helps him discover that he is ultimately unloved by Lorenzini. Pinocchio rescues several of Geppettos puppets from being deliberately burnt, unintentionally setting Lorenzinis theater alight. He then leaps into a river and flees to the forest, where he decides to live. Felinet and Volpe find him, swindling him out of his coins. Pinocchio spots a stage coach passing by carrying Lampwick and other boys, travelling to Terra Magica, a hidden funfair for boys to do as they please. Meanwhile, Geppetto and Leona have been tracking down Pinocchio. Losing track of him, Geppetto rows out to sea upon finding Pinocchios hat on a beach. In the funfair, Pinocchio, Lampwick, and other boys go on a roller-coaster, but drinking the water of Terra Magica turns them into donkeys, symbolizing their bad behavior by turning them into "jackasses". The funfair turns out to belong to Lorenzini, who sells the donkeys off to circuses and farms. Pinocchio has Lampwick kick Lorenzini into the water, transforming him into a demonic whale. The boys and donkeys flee the funfair, Pinocchio reuniting with Leona, and he sets out to find his father. Pinocchio and Pepe are consumed by a giant whale which they recognize as the now feral Lorenzini, reuniting with Geppetto inside. They try to escape up Lorenzinis throat, Pinocchio lying to extend his nose and make the passage larger. The whale starts to choke, breaching the ocean top, spitting Geppetto and Pinocchio out in the process. Lorenzini chokes and suffocates as his lifeless body sinks to the ocean floor. On land, Pinocchio and Geppetto embrace. Pinocchios tears flow, the tears landing on the heart carving, the same magic force from before transforming him into a real boy. The two embrace once more over the miracle. Pepe congratulates Pinocchio before leaving, wanting to rest from the whole ordeal, but promising they will see each other again soon. On the way home, Pinocchio runs into Felinet and Volpe, whom he tricks into going to Terra Magica and drinking the cursed water there; and they are later revealed to have transformed into a cat and a fox, which results in them getting corralled by a farmer and kept as pets. The donkeys transform back into boys by reforming. Geppetto and Leona marry, and Pinocchio gives his father a log he found to carve into a girlfriend.
The Adventures of Pinocchio (1996 film)
1996