Richard the Lionheart (Ian Hunter), the King of England, is taken captive in 1191 by Leopold V, Duke of Austria while returning to England. Richard’s treacherous brother, Prince John (Claude Rains), usurps the throne and proceeds to oppress the Saxons. Robin of Locksley (Errol Flynn), a Saxon nobleman, saves Much (Herbert Mundin) from being apprehended for poaching by Guy of Gisbourne (Basil Rathbone). Only Robin openly opposes Prince John. At Gisbournes castle, Robin boldly tells John, his Norman followers, and the initially contemptuous Lady Marian Fitzwalter (Olivia de Havilland) that he will do all in his power to restore Richard to the throne. He then escapes. He, his friend Will Scarlet (Patric Knowles) and Much take refuge in Sherwood Forest and recruit Little John (Alan Hale, Sr.), Friar Tuck (Eugene Pallette) and others. Branded as outlaws, Robin and his band fight against Prince Johns tyranny. Robin and his men capture a large party of Normans transporting tax money extorted from the Saxons. Among Robins "guests" are Sir Guy of Gisbourne, the cowardly Sheriff of Nottingham (Melville Cooper), and Lady Marian. At first disdainful of Robin, Marian comes to realize he is right about Norman brutality. Robin allows the humiliated Sir Guy and the Sheriff to leave Sherwood, telling them that they have Lady Marians presence to thank for their being spared. The Sheriff devises a cunning scheme to capture Robin by announcing an archery tournament with the prize of a golden arrow to be presented by Marian. All goes as planned: Robin cannot resist the temptation. He wins the tournament, but is captured and sentenced to hang. Marian helps Robins men rescue him. When he later sneaks in to see her, they pledge their love for each other, but Marian declines to leave with him, believing she can best help by acting as a spy. King Richard and his men secretly return to England, disguised as monks. At a roadside inn, the Bishop of the Black Canons (Montagu Love) recognizes him and alerts Prince John. Dickon Malbete (Harry Cording), a degraded knight, agrees to dispose of Richard in return for the restoration of his rank and Robins manor and estate. Marian overhears their plot and writes a note to Robin, but Gisbourne finds it and has her arrested. Marians confidante, Bess (Una OConnor), sends Much to warn Robin. On the way, he intercepts and kills Dickon, but is wounded. As Richard and his men travel through Sherwood Forest, they are stopped by Robin and his men. When asked if he supports Richard, the incognito King replies, "I love no man better" and accepts Robins invitation to dine. Much tells Robin of Marians peril and that Richard is now in England. Robin orders a search to find and protect the King. Then Richard reveals himself. Robin devises a plan to sneak into Nottingham Castle. He coerces the Bishop of the Black Canons to include his men, disguised as monks, in his entourage for Johns coronation. In the great hall, Richard reveals himself to the assembled nobles, and a melee breaks out. Robin and Gisbourne engage in a prolonged swordfight, ending with Gisbournes death. Johns faction is defeated. Richard exiles John and his followers for his lifetime and pardons the outlaws. He elevates Robin Hood to Baron of Locksley and Earl of Sherwood and Nottingham, and commands that Robin marry the Lady Marian. With Marian by his side, Robin replies, "May I obey all your commands with equal pleasure, Sire!"
The Adventures of Robin Hood (film)
1991