In 1891, Foreign Secretary Lord Redcliff haphazardly receives a document with unknown contents from Queen Victoria; the document is stolen from his safe later that night. Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson discuss the case. Deciding to lay low for a while, Holmes informs Watson that he will delegate cases to his younger brother, Sigerson, who has toiled in his brothers shadow without credit for decades. At a train station, and dressing in drag to avoid a would-be assassin, Sherlock passes the message to Scotland Yard records clerk Orville Sacker, a man with auditory eidetic memory, who happens to be a fan of Sigersons work. Arriving at Sigersons flat, Sacker finds him practicing his fencing and swordplay. Sigerson expresses bitterness and resentment over being unable to replicate Sherlocks success, mocking his big brother as "Sheer Luck" Holmes. Arriving next is a woman claiming to be Bessie Bellwood, but Sigerson sees through her ruse almost immediately by stumping her with his knowledge of Bellwoods repertoire and the fact that Bellwood had died in 1879. Eventually, after some interrogation—it soon becomes clear that the woman is a habitual liar—she reveals herself to be Jenny Hill, a music hall singer who believes she is being blackmailed by opera singer Eduardo Gambetti over a lewd letter she sent him. The assassin finds out about Hills and Sigersons meeting and reports it to an obviously math-challenged Professor Moriarty. Sigerson attends one of Hills performances and saves her from another would-be assassin by injecting himself into the play from the audience and directing Hill through a musical number. He then saves her again when two hansom cabs accost her on her way home; the trauma prompts Hill to temporarily stop cooperating in the case. Sigerson (dismayed that Sherlock got credit for saving Hill in the newspaper) is invited the next day to her dressing room, where he uses the power of seduction to both make love to her and find out further details. She reveals that she stole the document from Redcliffs safe and claims that Redcliff is her father. When Sigerson meets with Redcliff, he learns that Hill is not Redcliffs daughter, but his fiancée, and that Hill had lied to Sigerson again. Eventually the trail leads to Gambetti, who has made a deal with Moriarty to sell him the document, which foreign powers have offered £50,000 (£5.0 million today) to acquire. Moriarty pays, but the distrustful Gambetti proposes that he hand over the document during the debut of his opera (a botched "translation" of Giuseppe Verdis Un ballo in maschera) so that he has time to safely deposit the money. Sigerson and Sacker infiltrate the opera, which soon devolves into chaos. Sigerson and Moriarty confront each other backstage and are drawn into a sword fight that corners Sigerson on an outside ledge; at this point, Moriarty explains to Sigerson why he never lived up to his brothers fame: Sherlock was far better at seeing his enemys moves "two to three steps ahead" of when they happen. Under threat of death, Sigerson agrees to hand over what Moriarty thinks is the document before Moriarty falls off the ledge (shaken by the chimes of Big Ben) and into the water below. The document turns out to be a decoy: Sigerson has left the real document to be found by Sherlock. The final scene is of Sigerson Holmes running through a park to attend Jenny Hills wedding but finds that she has not gone through with the ceremony and, instead, is waiting for him on a park bench. The lovers reconcile and share in a celebratory dance, accompanied by a disguised Sherlock and Watson.
The Adventure of Sherlock Holmes' Smarter Brother
1975