Young journalist Tintin and his dog Snowy are browsing in an outdoor market in 1940s England. Tintin buys a miniature model of a ship, the Unicorn, but is accosted by an Interpol officer, Barnaby, and a ship collector, Ivan Ivanovitch Sakharine, who both unsuccessfully tried to buy the model from Tintin. Tintin takes the ship home, but it is accidentally broken in an incident between Snowy and a cat. A parchment scroll slips out and rolls under a piece of furniture. Meanwhile, bumbling police detectives Thomson and Thompson are on the trail of a pickpocket, Aristides Silk. After visiting Maritime Library to uncover the history surrounding the Unicorn, Tintin returns to find that the Unicorn has been stolen, suspecting Sakharine. He visits Marlinspike Hall and accuses him of the theft. After arguing, Tintin begins to notice that Sakharines model is not broken, realizing that there are two Unicorn models. After returning home once again, Tintin finds out that his apartment had been ransacked. Snowy shows him the scroll but shortly after reading an old message written on it, they are interrupted by the arrival of Barnaby, who is then assassinated while attempting to recover the Unicorn. Tintin places the scroll in his wallet, but it is stolen by Silk the next morning, after a scuffle with the police detectives. Later, Tintin is abducted by accomplices of Sakharine, and imprisoned on the SS Karaboudjan. He learns that Sakharine formed an alliance with the ships staff and led a mutiny to take over control. On board, Tintin meets Captain Haddock, the ships captain. Haddock is permanently drunk and thus unaware of the happenings on board his ship. Tintin, Haddock, and Snowy eventually outrun the crew and escape from the Karaboudjan in a lifeboat. The ship fails to ram their boat because they instead rammed an empty lifeboat the captain accidentally released during his escape. Presuming them to have survived by the number of lifeboats, Sakharine sends a seaplane to find and capture them. The trio seizes the plane, and use it to fly towards the fictitious Moroccan port of Bagghar. However, the seaplane crashes in the desert due to low fuel. While trekking through the desert, Haddock hallucinates, and remembers facts about an ancestor of his, Sir Francis Haddock, who was a 17th-century captain of the Unicorn. Sir Franciss treasure-laden ship was attacked by the crew of a pirate ship, led by Red Rackham and after his eventual surrender, Sir Francis sank the Unicorn, and most of the treasure, to prevent it from falling into Rackhams hands. It implies that there were three Unicorn models, each containing a scroll; together, the scrolls can reveal coordinates of the location of the sunken Unicorn and its treasure. The third model is in Bagghar, possessed by Omar ben Salaad. Sakharine causes a distraction in a Bianca Castafiore concert that results in him successfully stealing the third scroll. After a chase through the city, he gains all the scrolls by having his men toss Captain Haddock and Snowy in the water, to force Tintin to go after them instead of saving the scrolls. After the boat leaves, Tintin is ready to give up but is persuaded by Haddock to continue. With help from officers Thompson and Thomson, Tintin and Haddock track Sakharine down, who is revealed to be a descendant of Red Rackham. They head back to port and set up a trap, but Sakharine uses his pistol to resist arrest. When his men fail to save him, Sakharine challenges Haddock to a final showdown. Sakharine and Haddock sword-duel with cranes and swords eventually resulting in Sakharine being defeated and pushed overboard by Haddock. When climbing ashore, Sakharine is arrested by Thomson and Thompson. Guided by the three scrolls indicating the location of Marlinspike Hall, Tintin and Haddock find there some of the treasure and a clue to the Unicorns location. Both men agree on setting up an expedition to find the shipwreck.
The Adventures of Tintin: The Secret of the Unicorn
2011