Amos Tucker (Conway) and Theodore Ogelvie (Knotts), a pair of bumbling holdup men now going straight, arrive in the "boom town" of Junction City to start anew. But the duo end up causing havoc while getting cheated out of their money by two bank robbers named Wes Hardin (Osmond) and Hank Starrett (Gehring). Things worsen when Amos and Theodore end up being suspected of the robbery and end up on the run from the towns feared lawman Marshal Wooly Bill Hitchcock (Mars), who developed a personal vendetta toward Amos and Theodore after they accidentally humiliated and injured the marshal on two occasions. To escape Hitchcocks vengeance, ditching their donkey Clarise, as she was used by the robbers, Amos and Theodore enlist in the United States Cavalry at Fort Concho. But the duos bunglings and a run-in with a now insane marshal, who found them by following Clarise, result in the fort being burned to the ground. The following day, the fort commander Major Gaskill (Morgan) is relieved of his position while Amos and Theodore are placed in a military jail. But the "jail" turns out to be a cover for a robber baron named "Big Mac" (Jack Elam) who proceeds to recruit Amos and Theodore for an upcoming train robbery. Still determined to go straight, the boys attempt to extricate themselves from the situation by attempting to warn the local sheriff. The sheriff not available, they are told to visit the saloon as there is a visiting U.S. Marshall. After dressing up as bar-room dance girls to hide themselves from Big Macs gang, having another encounter with Hitchcock and making a trade for blankets to hide themselves, Amos and Theodore accidentally end up on the train Big Mac is targeting before. Amos and Theodore, with the help of Jeff Reed (Matheson), an army intelligence officer who posed as an enlisted soldier to uncover a conspiracy of military robberies, and Major Gaskils daughter Millie (Davalos), they arrest the robbers and their inside man Lt. Jim Ravencroft (Robert Pine). Soon after given pardons, Amos and Theodore decide to resume working at Russell Donovans farm.
The Apple Dumpling Gang Rides Again
1979