Gangsters Nat Burdell (Kenne Duncan) and Brad Conley (Ewing Miles Brown) kidnap wealthy socialite Margaret Chaffee (Marilyn Harvey) and, joined by gun moll Esther Malone (Jeanne Tatum), head for the San Gabriel Mountains to await the ransom theyve demanded from Chaffees father. That night, geologist Dick Cutler (Robert Clarke) sees what he thinks is a meteor crash into the forest. But he doesnt see that out of the smoke from the impact emerges a beautiful glowing blonde female extraterrestrial (Shirley Kilpatrick) in a skintight leotard who can kill by touch. The gangsters hole up at Cutlers cabin. When the alien peeks through a window, Burdell orders Conley to go after her, but the alien kills Conley, his gunshots having no effect on her whatsoever. Burdell then goes out and runs into the alien himself. Although his gunshots are also ineffective, the alien walks away backwards, allowing Burdell to retrieve Conleys body. Back at the cabin, Cutler says that Conley died of "radium poisoning" and that by carrying his body, Burdell has taken a potentially lethal dose of radium and needs to get to a doctor before he dies. Burdell decides they should flee that night, even though theyll have to navigate a dangerous mountain road in Cutlers headlight-less Jeep. But before they can leave, the alien smashes through the cabins window. Everyone runs outside. The alien catches Malone and kills her. When the alien tries to grab Burdell, he quickly sidesteps and she tumbles down an embankment. Burdell wrongly thinks shes dead. Cutler and Chaffee have already run back to the cabin. Burdell demands that they leave at once. But as they drive off, the extraterrestrial stops them and kills Burdell. With all the gangsters dead, Cutler and Chaffee run to the cabin again. Cutler speculates that the aliens body is made of radium and platinum, which protect her from the Earths atmosphere. He mixes an acid solution that will kill her. When she comes into the cabin, he throws the bottle of acid at her. She is killed and disintegrates. However, a locket she was wearing is undamaged. Cutler finds in it a note, written in English, from the "Master of the Council of Planets of the Galaxy." Its an invitation to Earth to join the Council. Cutler now realizes that the alien was a peaceful emissary who killed only in self-defense. Chaffee says that the Council, with its "superior wisdom," will surely understand that their human nature caused them to fear the alien and that another emissary will no doubt be sent. Cutler agrees, although he asks rhetorically, "But will it come to bring us good will or simply avenge her death?"
The Astounding She-Monster
1957