As a child, Christian Wolff is diagnosed with a high-functioning form of autism at Harbor Neuroscience, where he meets the doctors daughter, Justine. Chriss father declines the offer for his son to stay at a sensory friendly environment, believing that Chris must overcome the hardships inherent in his condition, but Chriss overwhelmed mother abandons their family. Afraid that others will exploit his son, Chriss father—a US Army PSYOP officer—begins a brutal regimen of stoicism and martial arts training for both him and his brother, Braxton. In the present, Chris works as a forensic accountant from a small strip mall office in Plainfield, Illinois. He unmasks insider financial deceptions, often for criminal and terrorist enterprises. Chriss clients interact with Chris through the Voice, an unidentified woman who calls him "Dreamboat". He exposes himself to loud music and flashing lights while abusing his own shinbone on a daily basis to inure himself to sensory overload. Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCen) Director Ray King pursues Chris, known to them as "the Accountant". King recruits Treasury data analyst Marybeth Medina to help him locate the Accountant. Her leads include Chriss cover names, a recording from his killing of nine members of the Gambino crime family, and some photos. Chris is hired to audit Living Robotics after the companys founder and CEO, Lamar Blackburn and his sister Rita, learn of discrepancies from in-house accountant Dana Cummings. Chris finds that over $61 million has been embezzled from the company. CFO Ed Chilton, who is diabetic, is forced by a hitman to commit suicide from an insulin overdose. Lamar dismisses Chris, claiming Chilton killed himself because of the investigation of the embezzlement, leaving Chris very distraught because he cannot finish the audit. In a flashback scene, the extent of Chris and his brothers relentless martial arts training instilled by their father as a child is revealed, suggesting that he is an adept fighter in the present day. As a result of his superior self defense capabilities, assassins fail to kill Chris; the last reveals that Dana is the next target. Chris saves her before taking her to his storage unit, containing an Airstream Panamerica with artwork and other valuables, which he uses to quickly flee in when necessary. As they talk, he realizes that the embezzlement at Living Robotics is a scheme like Crazy Eddies; money stolen from the company is returned to it, boosting profits and increasing the companys valuation as it prepares for an IPO. When Chris goes to confront Rita he finds her dead, exposing Lamar as the embezzler. Medina isolates Chriss voice from the recording of the Gambino killing, hearing him repeating the nursery rhyme Solomon Grundy. She learns that his cadence is reminiscent of those with autism, and that Chriss aliases are famed mathematicians, including his current identity, Christian Wolff. Using IRS records, she finds his Illinois office. Government agents search Chriss heavily secured home. King explains to Medina that Chris was imprisoned at Leavenworth because of a fight at his estranged mothers funeral, where his father was killed protecting Chris. He learned accounting from Francis Silverberg, a Gambino family accountant who became an FBI informant. King was Silverbergs handler, but his inaction led to the informant being brutally killed; King was staking out the Gambinos when Chris came to avenge his mentor. Chris could have killed King, but let him go after asking if he was a good father. King began getting information from the Voice when criminals violated Chriss moral code, and King became director of FinCen. King tells Medina someone has to take over when he retires. The phone rings, and the Voice tells Medina about Living Robotics. Chris goes to Lamars mansion, where the hitman and his men await. During the battle, the hitman recognizes Chris repeating the nursery rhyme and reveals that he is Chriss brother Braxton; they have not seen each other since Chriss imprisonment. Braxton attacks Chris, as he is both resentful over his brothers estrangement from him and blames him for their fathers death. During a pause in their fight Lamar arrogantly interrupts; Chris shoots him, ending the battle. Chris amicably agrees to meet Braxton in a week, saying he will find him. As another set of parents visits Harbor Neuroscience with their child, the boy meets Justine, still a patient there; she is the Voice, and Chris funds the center with his bookkeeping profits. Dana receives a Jackson Pollock painting she saw in the trailer, as Chris drives out of town with the Airstream in tow.
The Accountant (2016 film)
2016