The story begins in the weeks that precede the launch of "thefacebook.com" at Harvard. Eduardo Saverin, cast as the protagonist, has befriended Mark Zuckerberg, and both struggle for social acceptance—Saverin by joining a final club, Zuckerberg by creating a website where girls can be ranked according to their looks. Zuckerbergs stunt, though successful, puts him at odds with the Harvard Administrative Board, and has angered numerous campus womens groups as well as individual female students. An article on the incident in the Harvard Crimson is noticed by three Harvard seniors: twin brothers Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss and Divya Narendra, all of whom who are trying to launch a Harvard dating site. The trio approaches Zuckerberg, convincing him to join in the venture. Zuckerberg, however, feels their site does not have what he thinks is the right approach and begins developing thefacebook with financial help from Saverin and programming from Zuckerbergs roommates. Once thefacebook.com is launched it becomes an immediate hit on campus. After discovering what Zuckerberg has done, the Winklevoss and Narendra are infuriated and seek legal advice from their fathers lawyer. The story then chronicles the changing relationship between Saverin and Zuckerberg, who have different visions for thefacebook. While the first half of the book centers on the Harvard University campus and focuses on college life, the second half centers on the business end of thefacebook and Zuckerbergs move to Silicon Valley. Napster creator Sean Parker inserts himself into Zuckerbergs life, soon becoming a mentor to Zuckerberg who guides him to Silicon Valley venture capitalists and other players in the industry. Saverin, having graduated from Harvard, continues to feel sidelined by Parker, who he feels is not the best influence on Zuckerberg and is replacing him in importance to the advancement of thefacebook. The end of the book does not provide a conclusion since, according to the authors admission, matters of dispute are ongoing in the court of law.
The Accidental Billionaires
2010