Kumail is a standup comedian in Chicago trying to get his big break. He has a one-man show about his Pakistani background. His Muslim immigrant parents frequently set him up with young Pakistani women, hoping he will follow their example of an arranged marriage, but he is uninterested. He also lies to them about his faith, not sharing their beliefs. During a show, Kumail is heckled by Emily, a white woman in the audience. He approaches her after the show and their one-night stand develops into a long-term relationship. Kumail does not tell his family about Emily, as they would disapprove, and his relationship with Emily is strained when he is unwilling to commit. When Emily finds pictures of the women Kumails parents have set him up with, Kumail admits he does not see a long-term future with her due to his familys expectations. Emily ends their relationship. Kumail learns weeks later that Emily has been taken to the hospital after having fainted. A doctor tells him that Emily has a serious lung infection and must be immediately placed in an induced coma with tracheal intubation. He signs the permission form and calls her parents, Beth and Terry. Aware of their daughters messy breakup with Kumail, they tell him he is not needed, but Kumail stays and the three become close as they deal with Emilys illness. Surgery is ineffective and the infection spreads to Emilys kidneys. Beth wants to transfer Emily to a different hospital, but Kumail and Terry disagree. Beth and Terry argue, and she brings up Terrys past. Terry stays at Kumail’s apartment where he reveals that he cheated on Beth and regrets it. Kumails parents visit his apartment, angry that he is not taking their marriage suggestions seriously. Kumail tells them that he does not want an arranged marriage and has no interest in Islam, and reveals his relationship with Emily; his parents disown him. As Kumail prepares for an audition for the Montreal Comedy Festival, he learns that the infection has reached Emilys heart. Distraught on stage, Kumail tearfully spends the audition talking about his fears about Emily’s health, and fails the audition. Emily wakes from her coma. The doctors explain she has adult-onset Stills disease, a rare but treatable illness; Kumail inadvertently helped them diagnose when he mentioned she had an ankle injury that was slow to heal. Still bitter from their breakup, Emily tells Kumail to leave. Beth invites Kumail to Emilys homecoming party. Kumail asks Emily to take him back, but she refuses, still unsure of how she feels. Kumail decides to move to New York City with two comedian friends. He tells his family about his plans and refuses to allow them to disown him. Emily discovers a video of Kumails disastrous audition in which he spoke openly about his feelings for Emily. Emily visits Kumail after his one-man show. After he tells her about his plans to move to New York City, she tells him she appreciates everything he did for her while she was in a coma. As Kumail prepares to move to New York, his parents visit him. They tell him they are still angry but give him a dish of his favorite food and ask him to stay in touch. At a performance in New York, Kumail is heckled by someone in the crowd; he sees that it is Emily.
The Big Sick
2017