In May 1964, former Secretary of State William Russell (Henry Fonda) and Senator Joe Cantwell (Cliff Robertson) are the two leading candidates for the presidential nomination of an unspecified political party. Both have potentially fatal vulnerabilities. Russell is a principled intellectual (said by Vidal to be based on Adlai Stevenson). A sexual indiscretion has alienated his wife Alice (Margaret Leighton). In addition, he has a past nervous breakdown to live down. Cantwell (whom Vidal wrote was based on Richard Nixon) portrays himself as a populist "man of the people," and patriotic anti-communist campaigning to end "the missile gap" (a Kennedy campaign catch-phrase). Cantwell is a ruthless opportunist, willing to go to any lengths to get the nomination. Neither man can stand the other; neither believes his rival qualified to be president. They clash at the nominating convention in Los Angeles and lobby for the crucial support of dying former President Art Hockstader (Tracy). The pragmatic Hockstader (a character based on Harry S. Truman, particularly his comments on "striking a blow for liberty" whenever he drinks a bourbon) prefers Russell, but worries about his indecision and principles; he despises Cantwell but appreciates his toughness and willingness to do what it takes. Hockstader decides to support Cantwell publicly but the candidate blunders badly. When the two speak privately, Cantwell attacks Russell with illegally obtained psychological reports (obtained by Don Cantwell, his brother and campaign manager, a character clearly based on Bobby Kennedy who was known as "Ruthless Robert" in political circles during the 1950s and early 1960s). Cantwell mistakenly has assumed that Hockstader was for the more liberal man. The former president tells Cantwell that he doesnt mind a "bastard" but objects to a stupid one. He publicly endorses neither man. Cantwells attractive, ambitious wife (Edie Adams) actively campaigns, and Russells wife pretends that everything is fine with their marriage. The candidates go to the convention trying to outmaneuver the other, Russell appealing on principles and Cantwell using blackmail on undecided delegates. Russell finds out to his chagrin that Hockstader has offered the vice-presidential spot on the ticket to all three of the minor candidates, Sen. Oscar Anderson, Gov. John Merwin, and Gov. T.T. Claypoole. One of Russells aides finds Sheldon Bascomb (Shelley Berman), who served in the military with Cantwell and is willing to link him to homosexual activity while stationed in Alaska during World War II. Hockstader and Russells closest advisors press Russell to grab the opportunity but he resists. In a memorable line, Hockstader says that he doesnt care if Cantwell "has had carnal knowledge with a McCormick reaper" but still thinks the dirt should be used against him. After the first ballot, Russell arranges to meet Cantwell privately but when Bascomb is confronted face-to-face by Cantwell, he refutes his slander. Russell threatens to use the allegation anyway, but Cantwell knows Russell does not have the stomach for tactics that dirty. As the rounds of balloting continue, it becomes obvious neither man has enough votes. Cantwell offers Russell second spot on his ticket but Russell shocks him by throwing his support behind the low-profile Merwin. It puts an end to both their chances but unites the party around an electable candidate.
The Best Man (1964 film)
1964