The film opens with George Stroud (Ray Milland), editor-in-chief of Crimeways magazine, hiding from building security inside the "big clock". The clock is the largest and most sophisticated clock ever built; it dominates the lobby of the Janoth Publications building in New York City, where he works. The film flashes back to thirty-six hours earlier. Stroud is eager to go on a long-postponed vacation in Wheeling, West Virginia, with his wife Georgette (Maureen OSullivan) and son. His tyrannical boss, Earl Janoth (Charles Laughton) wants him to stay and follow up on a missing persons story Stroud has just cracked, but Stroud refuses and Janoth fires him. Stroud goes to a bar to drink and is distracted by the attentions of Janoths glamorous mistress, Pauline York (Rita Johnson), who proposes a blackmail plan against Janoth. When Stroud loses track of time and misses their scheduled train, Georgette angrily leaves for Wheeling without him. Stroud spends the evening drinking and going out on the town with York at various locations, buying a painting and a sundial. Stroud and York go to Yorks apartment, but she sees Janoth arriving, and Stroud leaves. Janoth sees someone leaving but does not recognize Stroud in the dark. Janoth assumes York is cheating on him, leading to a quarrel which ends with him striking York with the sundial and killing her. Janoth goes to his assistant, Hagen (George Macready), and tells him what happened, intending on going to the police and confessing. But Hagen talks him out of it and convinces him that they can frame the man Janoth saw leaving Yorks apartment for the crime. Janoth decides to use the resources of Crimeways to find the man instead of calling the police. Stroud has since caught up with his wife and son in West Virginia and tells her that he has been fired (but leaves out his adventures with York). Janoth calls to re-hire him, to lead the effort to find the mystery man (leaving out any mention of York). He mentions enough details for Stroud to know that the mystery man is himself. He reluctantly agrees to return to his job and lead the manhunt, to Georgettes disappointment. During the manhunt, Stroud has to appear to lead the investigation diligently, and at the same time, prevent the investigation from identifying him as its target. Meanwhile, he must also secretly carry out his own investigation to prove Janoths guilt. Eventually York is identified by the Crimeways team and witnesses are found that saw her out on the town with the mystery man. These witnesses are brought to the Janoth Building. One is eccentric artist Louise Patterson (Elsa Lanchester), who did the painting that was purchased by Stroud. Asked to paint a portrait of the mystery man, she produces a modernist abstract of blobs and swirls. Stroud tries to avoid the witnesses, but one of them sees and recognizes him as the mystery man. Stroud slips away before the witness points him out to the investigators, but now the investigators know that the mystery man is in the building, though not who he is. All exits from the building are sealed, and everyone must leave by the main door, with the witnesses watching for the mystery man. Building security men sweep the building to flush out the wanted man. Stroud evades the dragnet by various maneuvers, finally hiding in the clock (ending the flashback segment of the film). In the climax of the film, Stroud confronts Janoth and Hagen. He presents evidence which appears to point to Hagen as the killer. Hagen implores Janoth to clear him, but Janoth tells him only that he will provide him the best possible legal defense. Enraged, Hagen turns on Janoth and reveals that Janoth killed York and he helped cover it up. Janoth shoots Hagen and flees. Janoth tries to escape in an elevator, but the elevator car is stuck floors below (jammed there by Stroud earlier while evading the security men); Janoth falls down the elevator shaft to his death.
The Big Clock (film)
1948