Down on his luck, a washed-up movie director and writer Harry Dawes (Humphrey Bogart) is reduced to working for abusive, emotionally stunted business tycoon Kirk Edwards (Warren Stevens), who has decided that he wants to produce a film to stroke his monumental ego. Looking for a glamorous leading lady, they go to a Madrid night club to see a dancer named Maria Vargas (Ava Gardner), whom Kirk had already been told about. Maria is a blithe but proud spirit who likes to go barefoot and has a troubled home life. Maria immediately likes Harry, whose work she knows, but takes an instant dislike of Kirk. Although she flees during their meeting, Harry tracks her down to her family home and convinces her to fly away with them to America to make her first film. Thanks to his expertise and the help of sweaty, insincere publicist Oscar Muldoon (Edmond OBrien), her film debut is a sensation. With subsequent films by this team, Maria becomes a respected actress, Harrys career shines bright once again, and their relationship becomes a healthy friendship. During a party at Marias house, Kirk and wealthy Latin American playboy Alberto Bravano (Marius Goring) become involved in an argument over Maria. Alberto had conspicuously admired Maria during the evening, while believing that she is Kirks mistress. When Alberto invites her to join him on his yacht in the Riviera, Kirk orders her to stay away from him. Freeing herself from the dictates of Kirk, she accepts Albertos invitation. Also seeing an opportunity, Oscar, tired of stooging for Kirk, switches his allegiance to Alberto.  Maria is now a great star, but she is not satisfied. She envies the happiness her friend Harry has found with his wife Jerry (Elizabeth Sellars) and wants a Prince Charming of her own. Alberto is too frivolous and shallow for her. One evening at a casino, while Alberto is gambling, Maria takes some of his chips and cashes them, throwing the money to her gypsy lover from a window. When Alberto goes on a losing streak, he berates Maria in public for ruining his luck. Subsequently, he receives a slap in the face from Count Vincenzo Torlato-Favrini (Rossano Brazzi), who escorts Maria from the casino. Maria stays with Vincenzo and his widowed sister, Eleanora (Valentina Cortesa), at the counts palazzo. She has found the great love of her life, and they wed in a lavish ceremony, in which Harry gives away the bride. But there is a problem. The count and his sister are the last of the Torlato-Favrinis; without offspring, the noble line will die out. The count has a secret. Due to a war injury, he is impotent. He does not tell Maria about this until their wedding night. On a rainy night months later, with Harry in Italy, an unhappy Maria arrives at his hotel room, telling him about her husbands impotence, but confessing that she is pregnant. She believes Vincenzo will want this child in order to perpetuate the family lineage and will come to love the child as his own. Harry warns her against this, contending that Vincenzo is too proud to accept this. But, Maria feels otherwise and plans to tell him about her pregnancy that night. As Maria departs from his hotel room, Harry notices Vincenzos car trailing hers and follows them. Vincenzo had suspected that she was unfaithful, and back at the palazzo in the servants quarters, he shoots to death both her and her lover before she can tell him about the child. Harry arrives just as the shots are fired, seeing the counts carrying Marias limp body. He does not tell Vincenzo about the pregnancy. The count goes into the house to call the police. The story ends (as it began) with flashbacks at her funeral.
The Barefoot Contessa
1954