Harold Cooper is bathing his young son when his wife, Sarah, receives a phone call at their Richmond home telling her that their friend, Alex, has committed suicide. At the funeral, Harold and Sarah are reunited with college friends from the University of Michigan. They include Sam, a television actor; Meg, a real estate attorney in Atlanta; Michael, a journalist for People; Nick, a Vietnam War veteran and former radio host; Karen, a housewife from suburban Detroit whos unhappy in her marriage to her advertising executive husband, Richard. Also present is Chloe, Alexs younger girlfriend. After the burial, everyone goes to Harold and Sarahs vacation house, where they stay for the weekend. During the first night, a bat flies into the attic while Meg and Nick are getting reacquainted. Sam later finds Nick watching television, and they briefly talk about Karen. They go into the kitchen and find Richard making a sandwich, and the three have a discussion about responsibility and adulthood. Richard states, "Nobody said it was going to be fun. At least, nobody said it to me." The next morning Harold and Nick go jogging. Harold tells Nick that his company is about to be bought out by a large corporation, and hes going to be rich. Harold confides in Nick that Sarah and Alex had an affair five years earlier. Nick comforts him by saying, "She didnt marry Alex." Richard returns home to look after his kids, but Karen decides to stay in South Carolina for the weekend. Nick, Harold, Michael, and Chloe go for a drive, while Sam and Karen go shopping. Meg reveals to Sarah that she wants to have a child, and that she is going to ask Sam to be the father, knowing that Nick cant. Out in the country, Harold listens to Michaels plans to buy a nightclub. Chloe takes Nick to the abandoned house that she and Alex were going to renovate. She tells him that he reminds her of Alex, to which Nick replies, "I aint him." During dinner, Sarah starts tearing up over Alex as the group talks about him. Harold puts a record on the stereo, and everyone dances while cleaning up. While the others sit around and smoke marijuana, Meg asks Sam to father her baby, but he declines. The next morning Nick, Sam, and Harold go jogging, and the subject of Alexs suicide comes up again. Harolds surprise arrives: sneakers for everyone to wear during the upcoming Michigan football game. The group, minus Nick, watches the game on TV, while Sarah tells Karen about her brief affair with Alex and how it affected their friendship. During the game, Michael offers to father Megs child, alluding to the fact that they had sex in college. At halftime, Chloe, Sam, Harold, and Michael go outside to play touch football. Nick returns, followed by a police car. The officer says that Nick ran a red light, but says that he will drop the charges if Sam would hop into Nicks Porsche as his TV character, J. T. Lancer, always does. Sam is unsuccessful and hurts himself, but the officer drops the charges anyway. Karen later tells Sam that she loves him, wants to leave Richard and live with Sam and her two sons. When they kiss, Sam pulls away and tells Karen not to leave Richard. He confesses that it was "boredom" that caused his own marriage to fail, and he doesnt want her to make the same mistake. Karen feels misled and storms into the house. Harold is on the phone with his daughter, Molly, and lets Meg talk to her. Observing their interaction on the phone, Sarah decides to let Harold impregnate Meg, but does not tell him yet. The group once again discusses Alex. Nick says, "Alex died for most of us a long time ago," but Sam disagrees and leaves. Karen follows him, and the two have sex outside. Sarah tells Harold about Megs situation, while Chloe and Nick go to bed together. Meg and Harold then have sex, while Michael and Sarah jokingly interview each other with a video camera. In the morning while Karen is packing, she tells Sam that she has decided to stay with Richard. At breakfast, Harold reveals that Nick and Chloe will be staying for a while so they can renovate the old abandoned house. Sam and Nick then make up from their argument the night before. Nick gives Michael an old clipping of an article he had written about Alex. Michael states, tongue in cheek, "Sarah, Harold. We took a secret vote. Were not leaving. Were never leaving," and they all laugh.
The Big Chill (film)
1983