In 1862, as the Civil War rages in the Southeastern states, the Southwest is far away from the battle lines, but in New Mexico Territory, good relations between Fort Buchanans commanding officer, Maj. Colton (John Lund), and Chiricahua Apache chief Cochise (Jeff Chandler) are threatened by the arrival of venal government agent Baylor (Bruce Cowling) and his equally dishonest scout Mescal Jack (Jack Elam). In breach of existing treaties, Baylor plans to resettle the Apaches to the San Carlos Reservation, and when Geronimo (Jay Silverheels), the chief of the rival Mogollon Apaches, attacks the Tucson stagecoach and kills women and children, Baylor threatens to also transport the Chiricahuas to San Carlos. When confronted by Colton and Baylor, Cochise calls a council of Apache elders and they vote to banish Geronimo, who must also give up one of his stagecoach captives, schoolteacher Mary (Beverly Tyler). After assuring his pregnant wife Nona (Susan Cabot) that his interest in the attractive young schoolteacher is not romantic, Cochise brings Mary to Fort Buchanan and entrusts her to Maj. Colton, counseling him that she would be a fine wife. At the same time Baylor and Jack plot with Geronimo to frame Cochise for Geronimos attack on a ranch. During Coltons inquiry into the attack, his subordinate, Lt. Bascom (John Hudson), is promised a promotion by Baylor for rescuing the boy who was kidnapped during the attack. Cochise tells Bascom that it was Geronimo who committed the attack, but Bascom accuses him of lying and takes Nona hostage, while executing by hanging three braves, including Cochises brother, Little Elk (Tommy Cook). As Cochise mourns and then prepares to retaliate against Bascoms position, Mescal Jack goes to him on the pretense of warning him about an Army attack, but Cochise calls him a liar and puts him to death. Coltons trusted Sgt. Bernard (Richard Egan) informs him of the situation, causing Colton to shut down Fort Buchanan and prepare to transfer everyone, including Mary and Baylor, to Fort Sheridan, a more secure redoubt, some distance away. From the hills along the trail, Cochise watches the procession, as does Geronimo and, as shooting begins, the wounded Baylor goes towards the Indians positions, shouting that he is their friend, but Geronimo kills him. Colton and Sgt. Bernard use the expeditions cannon to rout the warriors, as Cochise finds Nona, who has been hurt, and takes her to the wagons so that Army Dr. Carter (Regis Toomey) can treat her. Geronimo calls Cochise a weak leader, but in a one-to-one battle, Cochise wins and, instead of killing Geronimo, banishes him. Nonas son is born and Nona gives her friend Mary a precious Apache bracelet. Colton and Mary look at each other with affection and Cochise tells them that time has come for peace, as he rides away with Nona.
The Battle at Apache Pass
1952