Former gymnastics Bronze Medalist Hope Ann Greggory (Melissa Rauch) has been living off her celebrity status in her hometown of Amherst, Ohio, though she is reduced to going through the mail her mailman father delivers for spending money. When her former coach Pavleck (Christine Abrahamsen) suddenly commits suicide, a letter arrives addressed to Hope stating that if she can guide Pavlecks best student, a young gymnastics star named Maggie Townsend (Haley Lu Richardson) to the Olympics in Toronto, she will receive a $500,000 inheritance. Unwilling to be overshadowed by Maggies success, Hope instead plans to take the money by sabotaging Maggies training so she can stay on top, initially feeding her junk food and a shake laced with marijuana. Maggie performs so poorly that arrogant Olympic Gold Medalist Lance Tucker (Sebastian Stan), who resents Hopes celebrity on account of her inferior bronze medal (which she won despite a career-ending injury) threatens to take over as Maggies coach. When Hope learns she will forfeit the inheritance money if she does not continue training Maggie, Hope grudgingly devotes herself to Maggies training in earnest. Along the way, she enters a romance with her assistant coach Ben Lawfort (Thomas Middleditch), nicknamed "Twitchy" due to his involuntary facial spasms. Hopes efforts eventually pay off when Maggie qualifies for the Olympic Games. However, she is shocked to discover that Coach Pavlecks gym is in danger of closing because Pavleck had no money to her name when she died. Upon hearing the news, Hopes father confesses that he was the one who had written the letter, to motivate Hope to do something meaningful with her life. After a heated exchange, Hope gets drunk and ends up having sex with Lance Tucker, leading a heartbroken Ben, who witnessed the act, to break off their relationship. Maggie succeeds in winning the gold medal and is celebrated as a local hero in Amherst, but announces her intention to begin training with Lance in Los Angeles instead of staying with Hope. When Maggie fails to show up for an autograph signing at a mall, Hope addresses the disappointed crowd and declares that she will always be Amhersts hero. She comes up with a plan to finance Pavlecks gym on her own by selling uniforms and gymnastics lessons to local girls. She then apologizes to Ben and retains him as her assistant coach. In the epilogue, a caption reveals that Maggie was forced to abandon her gymnastics career after becoming pregnant with Lances child.
The Bronze (film)
2016