A man named Tim Templeton tells a story about his 7-year-old self who lives with his parents, Ted and Janice. Ted and Janice work at Puppy Co., a puppy factory headed by Francis E. Francis. One day, Tim is surprised when an infant wearing a business suit shows up in a taxi at his house, and Ted and Janice call him Tims little brother. Tim is envious of the attention the baby receives, not to mention suspicious when the infant acts odd around him. Soon, Tim learns that the baby can talk like an adult, and he introduces himself as "The Boss". Seeing an opportunity to be rid of him, Tim decides to record a conversation between the Boss Baby and other toddlers who are at Tims house for a meeting (under the guise of a play date by the parents) to do something about how puppies are receiving more love than babies. The Boss Baby and the other infants catch Tim with the recording, and the cassette tape is terminated after the Boss Baby threatens to tear up Tims favorite stuffed animal, Lam-Lam. With no evidence to support him, Tim is grounded for three weeks by his parents for his actions, much to his and the Boss Babys dismay. The Boss Baby apologizes to Tim, feeling bad for what he did and has him suck on a pacifier that transports them to Baby Corp., a place where infants with adult-like minds work to preserve infant love everywhere. The Boss Baby explains that he was sent to see why puppies are getting more love than infants. He has infiltrated Tims residence because his parents work for Puppy Co., which is unleashing a new puppy on the day that employees take their children to work. The Boss Baby stays intelligent by drinking a "Secret Baby Formula" that enables a baby to act like an adult. However, if a baby does not drink it after a period of time, he or she becomes a regular baby. His mission is to find out what the new puppy is. If he succeeds, hell get his portrait on a wall and be promoted to Baby Corp.s corner office (with a private potty). When they overhear Boss Babys boss threaten to fire him for not bringing in information, thereby stripping him of his formula and stranding him at the Templetons, he and Tim agree to work together to keep that from happening. Tims parents lift the grounding and take them to Puppy Co. for the "take your child to work day". While there, they slip away and find what they think is the plans for a "Forever Puppy", but it turns out to be a trap set by the companys CEO, Francis. They discover that Francis used to be the head of Baby Corp. and Boss Babys idol but was forced out when it was discovered that his lactose intolerance kept the secret formula from working properly. Growing up to become a middle-aged businessman, Francis founded Puppy Co. and intends to have the Forever Puppies overshadow babies by stealing Boss Babys serum bottle and infecting the puppies with it. Tims parents go with Francis to Las Vegas, and Francis has his brother Eugene pose as Tim and Boss Babys babysitter to keep them from interfering. Without a steady flow of formula to keep his intelligence in check, Boss Baby starts becoming a normal baby. Despite this, he and Tim evade the "babysitter" long enough to get to the airport but are too late to intercept Tims parents. After letting out their frustrations at each other and quickly making up, they sneak on a plane for Elvis impersonators bound for Vegas. There, they stall Francis presentation when Eugene unwittingly gives away their plan. Furious at their interference, Francis locks Tims parents up so he can burn them with exhaust from a rocket used to launch the Forever Puppies. Tim and Boss Baby push him off of a ledge, making Francis tumble into the formula. Boss Baby opens the rocket to let the dogs out so they can save Tims parents. His return to baby state is complete while on the rocket, but the baby starts crying and Tim sings to him with the family song to show his appreciation, causing him to jump off the rocket before it launches. After the rocket does launch, Francis tries to attack Boss Baby, but is picked up by Eugene and is raised without revenge in his mind. Boss Baby gets promoted and leaves. Tim goes back to being an only child, but Tim and Boss Baby miss each other. After Tim writes a letter convincing him to live with him as his brother, Boss Baby returns to the Templeton family as a regular baby named Theodore Lindsey "Ted" Templeton. Back in the present, Tim, who finished the story, is now an adult and the father of two daughters, one of whom acts like Ted did when he was Boss Baby.
The Boss Baby
2017