In December 1976, financially-strapped couple Arthur (a NASA engineer) and Norma Lewis find a package on their doorstep. Inside is a wooden box, with a large red button locked under a transparent dome top. An accompanying note reads: "Mr. Steward will call upon you at 5:00 pm." Mr. Steward, a mysterious man with the left side of his face burned off, arrives to deliver the key for the box. He tells Norma that, if the button is pushed, he will give her a tax-free payment of $1 million in cash. However, someone she does not know will die. Norma and Arthur have ethical and moral arguments about pushing the button, wondering whether the death will be a young and innocent person, or a person on death row. Their son, Walter, is attending private school where Norma teaches, and she had just been informed that the school would no longer offer her a discount for his education, making the million dollars all the more enticing. Norma impulsively pushes the button before her husband can stop her. NSA chief Martin Teague and Norm Cahill, Arthurs boss from NASA, discuss Cahills missing NASA colleague, Arlington Steward. The chief tells Cahill that Steward became "something else" after being killed by lightning shortly after NASA received the first photograph transmitted by the Viking 1 Mars lander in July 1976. Life for Arthur and Norma becomes far worse. The two are constantly plagued by odd and seemingly supernatural happenings, a result of pressing the button. It is revealed throughout the film that Arlington has been conducting business with a group of benefactors using the box to decide if the human race is worth preserving. The couple are alarmingly visited by people who have also fallen victim to the box, pressing the button themselves and falling into the same fate as the Lewis family. After a number of paranormal incursions, Arlington ultimately returns to the Lewis home and informs them that their son Walter, who had been kidnapped by unknown assailants earlier, is locked in the familys bathroom upstairs. However, he has been stricken completely and irreversibly blind and deaf. Arlington laments that he had hoped for the family to be better than succumbing to the temptation of the money and left the box alone, but that it had to come to this for the choice that they made. Arlington makes the couple a final ultimatum: Keep the money and live out their lives with their disabled son, or have Arthur kill Norma, restoring Walters sight and hearing, with the million dollars being placed in a high-interest banking account available to him when he is 18. Arthur contemplates killing Arlington himself, with the latter stating that Arthur will be charged with his murder, his sons condition will remain, and the family will be left with nothing. Arlington departs the home, with Arthur coming to the realization that their choice to push the button has placed the family into purgatory. Norma decides to take Arlington up on his offer, wanting her son to live his life without disability, and asks Arthur to kill her. After a long goodbye, Arthur kills Norma. The scene cuts back and forth between Arthur, Norma, and another couple offered the same box. They also decide to press the button, resulting in Normas death. It is implied that this will go on and on among other couples in the future.
The Box (2009 film)
2009