At a bowling alley, a cheerful Jerry pops out of a bowling ball and slides and skates down an alley, but Tom peeks out from behind two bowling balls and appears behind Jerry. After tripping over Toms tail, Jerry moves his tail and goes to run down the alley again, but almost runs into Toms mouth. Tom chases Jerry onto the bowling lane, but slips on the alley. Jerry teases Tom, blowing on Toms legs to make him fall again before grabbing Toms tail and hurling him into an ashtray. Jerry then waves at Tom from the pins, and Tom grabs a bowling ball to throw, but Tom lets go in the air, and the ball lands on his back. Jerry laughs, but Tom then throws the ball successfully, making Jerry, hiding behind a pin, jiggle. Tom then bowls the pins down as Jerry clings onto the first pin, jumping out of the way. After Toms fifth ball breaks the pin, Jerry hides behind another as Tom converts a split. Tom then uses a towel and powder before throwing another ball at Jerry, but Jerry picks up a pin and hits the ball back at Tom. The ball flies toward Tom, who backs up to catch it, only for the ball to hit him and make the cat crash through the floor. With the pins reloaded, Jerry waves at the cat. Tom throws the ball at Jerry, but his thumb gets stuck and he slides down the lane with the ball, bowling down all the pins. Jerry hangs onto the pin setter, which turns Tom into a bowling pin. Jerry flees, but Tom pushes a line of bowling balls towards Jerry. Jerry outruns the balls and hides under the ball-eject lane, but the balls return in reverse. Tom opens his mouth, but a ball runs into his mouth instead. Jerry then pops out of it as the balls hit Tom. Tom slides down the ball rack, is squeezed through the arch, and is knocked out by two balls. Tom sticks his finger into the ball Jerry is hiding in, but Jerry bites him. Tom then blows into the ball to make Jerry pop out, but the ball drops on Toms left foot. Jerry then stomps on Toms foot to slow him down. Jerry jumps into another ball, and Tom covers it with a cloth, thinking he has caught Jerry. However, Jerry pops out of another ball, threads Toms tail through it and ties it in a knot. Tom eventually spots him and chases him, but the ball Jerry tied to the cats tail bangs into him twice and pulls him backwards when he goes to catch Jerry. Jerry runs under a bench, and Tom follows, but the ball gets stuck underneath. The ball then slams into Tom, sending Tom sliding down the lane, knocking down all the pins, and crashing through a wall before falling into a trash can outside. Jerry stands over his scorecard and records a strike before throwing the pencil he is using away.
The Bowling Alley Cat
1942