Hard-drinking family man Egbert Sousé (W. C. Fields) has a strained relations with his wife (Cora Witherspoon) and mother-in-law (Jessie Ralph) over his drinking, smoking, and taking money out of the piggy bank of his younger daughter Elsie Mae (Evelyn Del Rio) and replacing it with IOUs. When he tries to hit his younger daughter with a concrete urn, he is interrupted by his older daughter Myrtle (Una Merkel) introducing him to her fiancé, Og Oggilby (Grady Sutton). When A. Pismo Clam (Jack Norton), the director of a movie which is shooting in town, goes on a bender, producer Mackley Q. Greene (Dick Purcell) offers the job to Sousé. While on his lunch break, it appears that he has caught one of the two men who robbed the bank where his prospective son-in-law, Og, has a job as a teller. The grateful bank president, Mr. Skinner (Pierre Watkin), gives Sousé a job as the banks "special officer", a bank detective ("dick"). After being conned by swindler J. Frothingham Waterbury (Russell Hicks), Sousé convinces Og to steal $500 from the bank to invest in the questionable Beefsteak Mining Company. Og hopes to return the money to the bank four days later, when he expects to receive his annual bonus, but bank examiner J. Pinkerton Snoopington (Franklin Pangborn) arrives to immediately audit the bank. Sousé invites him to the Black Pussy Cat Café, a saloon run by Joe Guelpe (Shemp Howard), and drugs him with knockout drops – a "Mickey Finn" – and has him examined by quack Dr. Stall (Harlan Briggs). Despite this, Snoopington is determined to do his duty and proceed with the audit. Og passes out when he sees the examiner in the bank, and Sousé tries to delay the audit further by depriving Snoopington of his glasses. As Snoopington is about to discover the missing funds, the swindler shows up to buy back the stocks from Og at a discount, but Sousé learns that the mine has struck it rich, and he and Og are now wealthy and no longer have to worry about the audit. Just then, the escaped bank robber, Repulsive Brogan, returns to rob the bank a second time, and escapes with the banks money and Ogs mining company stock, taking Sousé hostage. The robber forces him to drive the getaway car, with the police, the bank director, Og, and the movie producer giving chase, during which parts of the getaway car keep falling off. Sousé once again receives the credit for catching the thief, and receives $5,000 for the capture of Brogan, $10,000 from the movie producer for his screen story as well as a contract to direct a film based on it. Now that he is rich, Sousé lives in a mansion, his family is elegant and well-spoken and treats him with respect, but he still follows Joe Guelpe on his way to open the Black Pussy Cat Café.
The Bank Dick
1940