Jack Ryan, a surfer and small-time thief, has a fight with the intimidating Lou Harris, involving a baseball bat. Harris is a foreman on a Hawaii construction site run by duplicitous millionaire Ray Ritchie. When Jack is released from jail, both the police and Ritchies business partner, Bob Rogers, Jr., tell Jack to leave the island. However, Judge Walter Crewes takes a liking to Jack and offers him a place to stay and a job as a handyman at a small resort of beach-front bungalows that the Judge owns. Jack has treacherous encounters with Harris and Rogers, Jr., on numerous occasions. Ritchie has all his (substantial) property registered in the name of his wife, Alison. He is also cheating on his wife with a much younger mistress, Nancy Hayes. When Nancy takes an interest in Jack, the Judge warns him that she likes "the criminal type" and cannot be trusted. Jack is falling for Nancy, and the two break into houses for fun and profit. Nancy suggests to Jack a scheme to steal $200,000 ($259,000 today) that Ritchie keeps for bribes and mob business. She arranges for Jack to sneak into Ritchies house to steal the money from his safe. Jack arrives to find that Nancy has poisoned Ritchie, in a conspiracy with Alison. Nancy has set up Jack to be Ritchies "killer", with Alison to shoot him dead as an intruder. It turns out that the Judge is Alisons lover and has been part of the conspiracy, with the two promising to give Nancy the $200,000 for her part. Jack manages to steal the money from the safe and narrowly escapes, leaving Alison and the Judge to set up Nancy as Ritchies killer. Alison and the Judge are seen sailing on Ritchies yacht, disposing of his body in the ocean. Nancy is seen in disguise, trying to escape the island before shes arrested for Ritchies murder. Jack drives past Nancy in a limousine, stopping to wish her well and refusing to help her after she set him up. He gets back in the limo, with the money and a beautiful vacationer named Number 9 he met while working at the Judges resort.
The Big Bounce (2004 film)
2004