Kenneth and Christine Penmark dote on their eight-year-old daughter, Rhoda. They say their farewells before he goes away on military duty. Their neighbor and landlord, Monica Breedlove, comes in with presents for Rhoda – a pair of sunglasses and a locket. Rhoda, pristine and proper in her pinafore dress and long, blonde pigtails, thanks Monica for the gifts. She dances in tap shoes and tells Monica about a penmanship competition that Rhoda lost to her schoolmate, Claude Daigle; Monica speaks of it as a childish disappointment, but Rhodas face darkens with fury. Christine and Rhoda leave for the school picnic at a nearby lake. Later, Christine is having lunch with Monica and friends when they learn on the radio that a child has drowned in the lake where Rhodas school was having their picnic. Christine worries that the drowned child could be her daughter, but a follow-up report indicates that it was Rhodas schoolmate, Claude, the winner of the penmanship medal. Relieved that Rhoda is alive, Christine worries that her daughter might be traumatized by seeing the boy’s corpse. When Rhoda returns, however, she is unfazed by the incident and goes about her daily activities. Rhodas teacher, Mrs. Fern visits Christine, revealing that Rhoda was apparently the last person to see Claude alive and that she was seen grabbing at Claudes medal. Mrs. Fern alludes to the fact that Rhoda might have had some connection to the boys death, but stops short of actually accusing her of it, and says that Rhoda would not be welcome at the school the following year. As the two women talk, Claudes parents, Mr. and Mrs. Daigle, barges in. Claudes mother is both distraught and drunk. She accuses Rhodas teacher of knowing something that she is not telling. Mr. Daigle steps in, apologizing for the scene. When Christine finds the penmanship medal in Rhodas room, she demands an explanation. Rhoda lies that Claude let her have the medal after she won a bet. Later, Christines intuition about having been adopted is confirmed: she is the biological daughter of a notorious serial killer, Bessie Danker, and was adopted at two years of age by her foster father, Richard Bravo, and his late wife. Christine now worries that Bessie (and therefore Christine herself) is the cause of Rhodas sociopathy and that her behavior is genetic, not subject to influence or reversal by good parenting or a wholesome environment. Christine catches Rhoda trying to dispose of her tap shoes in the incinerator and realizes that Rhoda must have hit Claude with the shoes, which explains the shape of the bruises on his forehead and hands. A tearful Rhoda admits that she killed the boy to get the medal and also confirms Christines suspicion that she murdered a neighbor lady when they lived in Wichita to obtain a trifle the elderly woman had promised Rhoda upon her death. Christine orders Rhoda to burn the shoes in the incinerator. The next day, as Rhoda is playing in the garden, the caretaker, LeRoy, tells her that he believes she killed Claude by striking him with her shoes and that he would tell the police, sending her to the electric chair. After Rhoda angrily tells him she burned her shoes, LeRoy opens the incinerator and finds what remains of the shoes. A drunk Mrs. Daigle returns to see Christine and asks to speak with Rhoda, but Monica takes the girl away before she can answer any questions. Mrs. Daigle tells Christine that she believes Rhoda knows what happened to her son. Monica gives Christine vitamins and sleeping pills to help her feel better. Meanwhile, Rhoda sets LeRoys bedding ablaze in the basement and traps him there; he burns to death. From the apartment window, Christine and Monica watch him die, which makes Christine hysterical. That night, a strangely calm Christine tells Rhoda that she dropped the medal into the lake, and then gives her daughter a lethal dose of sleeping pills, telling her they are new vitamins. She attempts to kill herself with a gunshot to the head. However, the gunshot alerts the neighbors. Rhoda and Christine are found and taken to a hospital. They both survive, though Christine is in a coma. Rhodas father takes her home from the hospital and puts her to bed, but during a rainstorm in the middle of the night, Rhoda sneaks out of the apartment. Her father is awakened by a call from the hospital, where Christine has regained consciousness. She begs her husband for forgiveness and tells him she loves him. Rhoda arrives at the lake and goes out on the pier in an attempt to retrieve the penmanship medal. A bolt of lightning strikes Rhoda, killing her instantly and putting an end to her evil.
The Bad Seed (1956 film)
1956