In October 1994, film students Heather, Mike and Josh set out to produce a documentary about the fabled Blair Witch. They travel to Burkittsville, Maryland, and interview residents about the legend. Locals tell them of Rustin Parr, a hermit who lived in the woods and kidnapped eight children in the 1940s. After spending the night at a motel, the students explore the woods in north Burkittsville to research the legend. Along the way they meet two fishermen, one of whom warns them that the woods are haunted. He also tells them of a young girl named Robin Weaver, who went missing in 1888; when she returned three days later, she talked about "an old woman whose feet never touched the ground." His companion, however, is skeptical of the story. The students hike to Coffin Rock, where five men were found ritualistically murdered in the 19th century, their bodies later disappearing. The group camps for the night. They move deeper into the woods the next day and locate what appears to be an old cemetery with seven small cairns and set up camp nearby. That night, they hear the sound of twigs snapping from all directions but assume the noises are from animals or locals. The following day, they attempt to hike back to the car but are unable to find it before dark and make camp. They again hear twigs snapping at night but fail to find the source of the noises. At morning, they find that three cairns have been built around their tent during the night, which unnerves them. As they continue, Heather realizes her map is missing and Mike later reveals he kicked it into a creek the previous day out of frustration, which prompts Heather and Josh to attack him in a rage. They realize they are now lost and decide simply to head south. They eventually reach a section where they discover a multitude of humanoid stick figures suspended from trees. They again hear sounds that night, including those of children laughing, among other strange noises. After an unknown force shakes the tent, they flee in panic and hide in the woods until dawn. Upon returning to their tent, they find that their possessions have been rifled through, and Joshs equipment is covered with slime. As they continue, they come across a log on a river identical to one they crossed earlier. They realize they have walked in a circle, despite having traveled south all day, and once again make camp. Josh suffers a breakdown while holding the camera, taunting Heather for their circumstances and her constant recording of the events. Josh has disappeared the next morning and Heather and Mike try in vain to find him before slowly moving on. That night, they hear Joshs agonized screams in the darkness but are unable to locate him. Mike and Heather theorize that Joshs screams are a fabrication by the witch to draw them out of their tent. The next day, outside her tent, Heather discovers a bundle of sticks tied with a piece of fabric from Joshs shirt. As she searches through it, she finds blood-soaked scraps of Joshs shirt as well as teeth, hair and what appears to be a piece of his tongue. Although distraught by the discovery, she chooses not to tell Mike. That night, Heather records herself apologizing to her family and to Mikes and Joshs families, taking full responsibility for their predicament. They again hear Joshs agonized cries for help and follow them to a derelict, abandoned house containing symbols and childrens bloody hand-prints on the walls. Mike races upstairs to find Josh while Heather follows. Mike says he hears Josh in the basement. He runs downstairs while a hysterical Heather struggles to keep up. Upon reaching the basement, an unseen force attacks Mike, causing him to drop the camera and go silent. Heather enters the basement screaming, and her camera captures Mike facing a corner. Something unseen attacks Heather, causing her to drop her camera and go silent as well. The footage continues for another moment and ends.
The Blair Witch Project
2000