The sweet-natured and honest Brother looks like an ordinary African American man, distinguished only by his being mute and—although other characters in the film never see them—his feet, which each have three large toes. Upon arrival in Ellis Island, the Brother displays psychic powers, being able to hear the experiences of the immigrants that came before him. He is able to regenerate a foot that he lost after crashing in the ocean, perhaps to a shark bite. The Brother also has telekinetic powers but, unable to speak, he struggles to express himself and adjust to his new surroundings, including a stint in the Job Corps at a video arcade in Manhattan. Repeatedly, people ask him where he is from. He points his thumb upwards, which many take to mean that he comes from Upper Manhattan. The Brother has escaped enslavement on the planet he comes from. This is made evident in the film when he is in a museum with a young boy. He points to an illustration, displayed in the museum, depicting an enslaved African American who is running away, and then points to himself, indicating a similarity. He even frees a dog on a busy street from its tether, not realizing that it was leashed for a reason. He is chased by two white Men in Black (David Strathairn and director Sayles himself); Sayless twist on the Men in Black concept is that instead of government agents trying to cover up alien activity, Sayless Men in Black are also aliens, out to re-capture "The Brother" and other escaped slaves and bring them back to their home planet. The Brother meets a variety of people, including the black habitués of Odells bar, the nice Mrs. Carter who gives him a place to stay, a card trickster on the subway, a couple of young white Midwestern men who wander by accident into Odells and attempt to befriend him by talking about Ernie Banks, street junkies who rob him and injure him (he is able to heal himself at once), and a friendly cop who is new to Harlem. Captivated by posters for a black singer, Malverne, he earns the money to attend one of her singing gigs and has a tryst with her. Seeing some dead junkies on the street, he samples the remainder of their product and hates the result. After this, the movie changes into a darker, if not entirely dark, tone. He recognizes some graffiti as language from his own planet, but the Men in Black recognize it, too. In his own bizarre and alien way, he watches the drug dealers and teaches one of the top honchos a lesson. The Men in Black capture him, briefly, but they find themselves facing a neighborhood of blacks who support the Brother. Cornered, they destroy themselves. After taking the A train, the Brother turns and smiles into the camera.
The Brother from Another Planet
1984