The film begins with Finbar "Barry" McMullen standing at the grave of his recently deceased father, along with his mother, who tells him that shes returning to her native Ireland to be with Finbar OShaughnessy (after whom Barry is named), her sweetheart of long ago. She tells Barry that while she gave Barrys father 35 of the best years of her life, shes going to start living life her way with the man she really loves. Jack has purchased their parents home and lives in it with his wife Molly. Jack is torn between his love for Molly and his lust for Ann, a former romantic interest of Barrys. Barry and the youngest brother, Pat ask to temporarily move in with Jack, to which he reluctantly agrees. Pat plans to break his engagement to Susan, but becomes depressed when she breaks up with him. After much pleading, Susan decides to take Pat back. Pat then decides to end the relationship for good for Leslie, an auto mechanic. They decide to head out to California together in a classic car that Leslie has been working on. Barry shows no interest in a long-term relationship, until he meets Audrey, a woman whom he accuses of "stealing" an apartment that he was trying to rent for himself. Though things do not go well between them at first, they warm up to one another and start a relationship. Molly learns of Jacks affair after finding a wrapped condom in his pants as she is cleaning up after him one day. She confronts Jack, but he refuses to discuss it. Jack finally breaks it off for good with Ann. He then returns home determined to rebuild his wounded marriage, but not before paying a visit to his fathers grave, promising (in a voice-over) that he will be a better husband to his wife than his father was, pouring a bottle of Irish whiskey over the grave. Barry decides to move in with Audrey and take their relationship to the next level. The movie ends with all three brothers gathering at the family homestead with a newfound belief in love and a desire to not let the ghosts of the past stand in their way.
The Brothers McMullen
1995