Martha Farnsworth is running a girls school in Virginia during the American Civil War. By 1864, almost all of the students, teachers and slaves have left. Only teacher Edwina Morrow and five students stay with Miss Farnsworth. While out in the woods searching for mushrooms, Amy, a pupil, comes across John McBurney, a corporal in the Union Army who was wounded in the leg during battle and has since deserted the battlefield. Amy brings McBurney to the school where he falls unconscious. The women lock McBurney in one of the rooms while Miss Farnsworth tends to his wounds. All the women and girls in the school are immediately fascinated by the handsome man. At the beginning, some residents want him to be delivered as a prisoner of war to the Confederate Army but Miss Farnsworth decides that they will let his leg heal before they decide what they will do with him. When Confederate soldiers arrive at the school, Miss Farnsworth does not tell them that a Union soldier is on the premises. While he is recovering, the women and girls fight for McBurneys affection, giving him presents, wearing jewellery and preparing a luxurious dinner for him. He returns the affection, especially concentrating on Miss Morrow and Miss Farnsworth. When he is able to move again, he begins to help in the garden. It becomes clear that he fears returning to the war. When Miss Farnsworth indicates that he is healthy enough and will have to leave the school in a few days, he tries to convince her to let him stay as a gardener and tells Miss Morrow that he has fallen in love with her. One night, he tells Miss Morrow to await him in her room. When he does not appear and she hears strange noises, she investigates and finds him in bed with Alicia, a teenage student. When McBurney tries to calm Miss Morrow down, she pushes him away, leading to him falling down the stairs and badly breaking his injured leg. Miss Farnsworth decides that the only way to save him is to amputate his leg. When McBurney awakes the next day and realizes he has lost his leg, he is devastated and furious, accusing the women and especially Miss Farnsworth, of having punished him for not choosing their rooms instead of Alicias. He is locked up in his room but threatens Jane to get him the room key. He then breaks out, steals a gun, threatens the women and then storms off. Miss Morrow follows him to his room where they have passionate sex. Meanwhile Miss Farnsworth tries to find a solution. One of the students suggests killing McBurney by preparing a dinner for him using some poisonous mushrooms, to which she agrees. During the dinner, Miss Morrow, who is not informed of the plan, is deterred by the others at the last minute from putting the mushrooms on her own plate. McBurney does not get suspicious and eats the mushrooms. Seconds later he falls to the floor, dead. While the others are sewing McBurneys body into a shroud, Miss Morrow looks on, devastated. The film ends with the women dragging his body to the road to let him be found by the next soldiers who come by.
The Beguiled (2017 film)
2017