Billy Coy (Mickey Rooney) arrives in the town of Carrell, California and offers himself as a mechanic for Arthur "Red" Stanley (Thomas Mitchell) at his garage. Red turns down Billy initially, but after seeing a photo of his father, "Cannonball" Coy, a famous driver, Red scares up a job for Billy. Billys father died in an accident at the Indianapolis 500 several years previously. Red was Cannonballs mechanic, riding with him the day he died in the north turn of the Indianapolis motor speedway. Red inquires after "her"; he still carries a torch for Mary (Spring Byington), Cannonballs widow and Billys mother. At the garage, Billy befriends a tomboy, Louise Riley (Mary Hatcher), whose father owns the nearest racetrack. Billy gets a chance to prove his skills as a driver in a qualifying race, but he is too arrogant to follow his employers advice and is unsuccessful. He asks Louise to meet on Saturday night at the track. Thinking it is a date, Louise does the unheard of for her -- she buys a dress and heels (in which she is unskilled at walking), assisted by her familys maid (Hattie McDaniel). As it turns out, Billy needed her help with changing some carburetors, much to Louises disappointment. She gamely wobbles on high heels with him to the garage, buoyed by her love of cars and affection for Billy. Billy gets another chance to drive for another car owner, Deacon Jones. The car is green and referred to as a "Hoodoo Wagon" due to a racing superstition that green cars are unlucky. A helpful gadfly in the pits reminds Billy this is the same color as the car his father drove when he crashed and burned. Billy drives but is pushed off the track by driver Vic Sullivan (Michael OShea). Billy survives the crash but fails to qualify. He vents his frustration at the dirty trick by punching Vic. Distracted by the spectacle, another driver injures his hand by absentmindedly placing it on the searing exhaust pipe of his car in which hes sitting; Billy is offered the opportunity to drive in the incapacitated mans stead. Billy wins the next race and continues driving for Jones. Together with his teams other driver, Happy Lee (Steve Brodie), they make headlines with their success. Billy gets arrested for speeding after he has too much to drink. Red bails him out, and contrary to Reds advice, Billy goes on to race that same night. When the left rear wheel in Happys car breaks, Billy tries desperately to catch up to Happy and alert him but instead crashes into Happys car after the wheel comes off. The car skids to a stop in Billys path. Happys car is smashed through the wall, rupturing the gas tank and the car bursts into flames. Despite Billys frantic efforts to save him, Happy dies in the blaze. After the race, the other drivers avoid Billy, convinced Billy made good his tyro promise to "...drive over them" and he is fired from Joness garage. Billy decides to move "back east, where the big cars and the big money are." Billy stays in contact with Louise, and starts fresh as a race car driver. In his absence, his mother and Red get married. On the day of the next Indianapolis 500 race, Mary, Red and Louise turn out to support Billy. He drives one of Reds cars and leads, but on the final lap Billy drives through flaming gasoline from a wreck which causes Billys engine to catch fire. Battling the smoke, Billy finishes the race, taking third place, leaping from the car just before it explodes. Billy is bitterly disappointed not to have won, especially since without a winning purse Red cant afford to race again. To Billys delight, in a show of great sportsmanship, the winner insists officials give the trophy to Billy for his bravery.
The Big Wheel (film)
1949