Toms relaxation at the beach is interrupted by Jerry who inadvertently walks over the sunbathing Tom going fishing. Jerry goes out to the pier and casts his favorite bait: cheese. Tom pulls on the line and makes Jerry reel him in. Jerry lets go of the line and Tom struggles to stay afloat, losing the string. Tom barely catches the pier, but Jerry swings the pole at him. After a few misses, Jerry whistles and then lands a direct hit. He runs to the end of the pier and pulls off the end board. Tom cant brake, and walks the plank until Jerry pulls it out, causing Tom to fall into the sea. Unable to swim, Tom struggles futilely for a few seconds to reach the surface before passing out from lack of air. Tom wakes up on the sea bed, where he finds himself still alive. He starts imitating the majestic sea creatures until he spots Mermouse. Mermouse swims in circles until Toms head has done a 360, and is then grabbed again. Mermouse slaps Toms face with his tail, then twists his ears in to the shape of a wrench. The cat gives chase through shipwreck windows until Tom hangs back to swallow the mouse. Mermouse breaks out through Toms left eardrum. Mermouse hides and disguises himself as a seahorse to join a father seahorse leading his babies, fooling the cat for only a while. Mermouse then gets lassoed and captured, but Tom gets tricked into holding a fishing line and is caught. Tom escapes and chases Mermouse into another shipwreck, but Mermouse closes the door on him. The anchor of the ship lands on Tom. He emerges with chain rings on his ears and neck. Mermouse steals away, but cannot brake in time to avoid a swordfish. Mermouse swims back the way he came, and sees Tom with a spade ready to strike. Tom misses Mermouse and whacks the swordfishs bill (which inadvertently saves Jerry). Tom returns it to its proper shape, before he is pursued. Tom hides in a barrel until Mermouse signals the swordfish with two red circles in form of a target around the hole in the barrel. Tom is pursued again after being impaled in the rear. He ducks and narrowly missed being struck on the head as the swordfish thrusts its bill into a pole. Thinking quickly, Tom hammers down the bill with a nearby lead pipe on the other side of the pole so that the swordfish cannot escape. Free of this worry, Tom returns to chasing Mermouse, who has woken up an octopus. Mermouse hides and Tom stands vigil. As Mermouse sets out, he gets poked in the back. Soon, Toms stung on the backside. Tom attempts to run from the octopus, but he was not quick enough to evade the octopuss reach and is held fast by first 1, then 2, then 3 tentacles. Realizing this wasnt a gag, but a matter of Toms life, Mermouse returns to save him. He seizes Tom first by the paws and then, when his grip slips, the whiskers in a deadly tug-of-war against the octopus. Tom is tugged helplessly back and forth as the tussle goes first one way then the other. Tom wakes and finds that he is back on the jetty, revealing the whole thing to be a dream. Jerry rescued Tom from the water after he fell in and is applying artificial respiration in the same rhythm as in the struggle during the final moments of Toms dream. Tom coughs after a number of Jerrys struggles. Then he thankfully shakes Jerrys hand and happily submits to further removal of the water from his lungs.
The Cat and the Mermouse
1949