A cave family called the Croods survives, due to the overprotective nature of their stubborn, stern patriarch, father, Grug. The only one who questions the familys sheltered life is his teenaged daughter Eep, who frequently disobeys her fathers orders out of curiosity, which he finds dangerous. Grug and Eep, along with her mother and his wife Ugga, her grandmother Gran, and her younger brother and sister, Thunk and Sandy, face time sheltered in their cave home. Eep sneaks out when she sees what she discovers to be a torch of fire and she encounters an inventive modern human boy named Guy and his pet sloth Belt. He warns her of an impending apocalypse and offers to take her with him, but concerned for her family, Eep stays, getting a shell horn from him to blow in case she needs his help. Reuniting with her frantic family, she tries to tell her them what Guy told her, but fearing things that are "different" and "new" they destroy her horn. A massive earthquake then destroys their home, and to avoid carnivores, they descend down into a tropical forest that lay hidden behind their cave all the time. Encountering a "Macawnivore" a brightly colored feline that Gran dubs "Chunky," the family flees him until he is scared off by swarms of piranhakeets that devoured a ground whale. Using another horn, Eep calls to Guy who rescues them from the birds with his fire. After a great deal of confusion regarding their first contact with fire, Grug imprisons Guy in a log until he can guide them somewhere safe. Guy suggested the Croods to go to a mountain where it has caves. Grug refuses at first, but he decided to go. The other Croods were worried that they’ll get tired but Grug didn’t listen. Along the trip, there was chaos and complaints at the back. When Grug finds a bird, he decided to hunt its egg for dinner. Eep wants to hunt the egg, but even though she’s grounded, she gets replaced by Thunk, who’s too lazy to hunt it. Grug and Thunk failed to capture the bird’s egg, so they have scorpion instead. During a fight between Thunk and Gran, Eep noticed Guy moving away and stopped him. Guy wants Eep to stop so he made her hunt with him. Eep goes with Guy to hunt, while the others fought. Eep and Guy made a trap in order to capture the bird, but failed when the two got tangled up and the bird didn’t step in the trap. The bird captured the puppet with Guy in it and threw him up in the sky until he lands on the log. Grug asked Guy where Eep is and he found her being chased by the bird. Grug got angry but didn’t notice that he was about to step on the trap, so Eep pushed him out to save her father. The bird stepped on the trap and was flown up in the sky until it crash landed on the ground. The Croods cooked the bird and Guy was tied up with a root chain on his right leg. After dinner, Grug tells them a story about a tiger who is similar to Eep, which is based on a true story and embarasses Eep. Guy also suggested that his stories never ended up like Grug’s stories so the Croods decides to listen to Guy’s story much to their interest. Guy told them about a tiger who flew into place with more suns in the sky called “Tomorrow”. Guy also tells them stories of "Tomorrow", a heaven of safety where he is headed and in which curiosity is not deadly as Grug has claimed. Outrunning the destruction, Guy is trusted enough to be let out of the log and he gives the Croods rudimentary shoes to walk over the harsh landscape as he leads them to a mountain in which he says will be safe. After the family is split up in a labyrinth of tunnels, all but Grug, manage to escape by coming up with ideas of overcoming obstacles in their paths. At his treetop home, Grug sees the impression Guy is leaving on his family and he becomes jealous, especially when he realizes that Eep has fallen in love with Guy. Attempting to invent things like Guy, Grug only further embarrasses himself and drives his family further away from him. Reaching the mountain, Grug tries to force his family to hide out in a cave, but they resist, telling him that they cant live in caves anymore, that they dont want to survive but to live. This enrages Grug, who attacks Guy and both of them end up in a tar flow where Grug learns that Guys family had perished in one. Realizing that Guys method of survival is better for his family, Grug works with him and they lure Chunky into a trap to free themselves. The family reunites, then flees a massive cataclysm as the land begins to violently rip apart. The family is cut off from their destination by a continental split, but Grug, realizing the errors of his ways, decides to throw his family to safety. He shares an invention he calls a "hug" with Eep, briefly before sending her across as well. Cut off from his family, Grug finds a cave for safety, where he encounters Chunky; who is truly a frightened and sweet feline, and he comes up with an idea to getting them across the chasm. Using a ribcage and the Piranhakeets to fashion a simple airship, Grug manages to send themselves, and several animals the family had encountered during their journey, across the chasm, reuniting with his family once again. He apologizes to them all and promises to never be so overbearing again. Later, the Croods now live on the land and have settled on a vast beach, where every day they can follow the light to "Tomorrow."
The Croods
2013