Linda Gault comes from a poverty-stricken family and is determined never to be poor again. She is now a philandering elitist who casually seduces men for their money. Her stockbroker husband Geoffrey has found out about his wifes infidelities, and encouraging her to collect investment recommendations from her latest lover, high profile financier John Fair. Linda is unamused with her husbands desire, claiming that finances have killed their loving marriage. Nevertheless, she does as her husband asks, and afterwards feels ashamed about it. Having tired of Fair, she breaks off their affair. Unaware of this, Geoffrey insists she get the latest inside information from Fair, as the stock market is behaving very strangely. Suspicious of Lindas rapid about face, Fair refuses to tell her anything. Not wanting to admit that she was unable to charm her ex-lover, Linda lies to her husband, telling him the market will rise. As a result, Geoffry loses all of his money in the Wall Street Crash of 1929. Unwilling to deal with being impoverished, Linda persuades her husband to pay for her extended stay in Bermuda, using some of the money he needs to try to recover. There, she is romanced by Ronnie Sanderson, an Australian sheep rancher. Ronnie proposes that Linda live with him in Australia, but she hesitates to, feeling Australia has nothing to offer her. However, when she learns about her husband having become broke, she is eager to profit from Ronnie in every way possible. Ronnie finds out about Lindas financial motivation and loses interest in her. Linda is able to manipulate Ronnie into falling for her and he expresses his interest in marrying her if she first returns to New York City to divorce her husband. Once in New York and announcing the divorce, Geoffrey reacts in laughter, telling her she will never marry a sheep rancher. Meanwhile, Lindas maid Celeste steals Lindas jewelry to save her boyfriend Arthur from jail. Linda now realizes she is completely broke and lands a job as a clothing stores clerk. She is surprised by a visit from Ronnie, who insists on taking her to Australia immediately. Geoffrey, who is not willing to let go his wife, warns Ronnie about Lindas spoiled character, but Ronnie does not feel threatened. On the evening Linda is leaving, Geoffrey confronts Fair with losing all of his money because of Fairs supposed statement to Linda. They initially quarrel, but in the end, Geoffrey receives some of the money he lost as a loan. Back home, he receives a visit from Linda, who has come to say goodbye. They realize the faults they have made in the past and are reconciled. Linda tears up Fairs check.
The Crash (1932 film)
1932