The film takes many of its elements and main characters from the Third Crusade, which was prompted by the Saracen capture of Jerusalem and the crusader states in the Holy Land in A.D. 1187. The character of King Richard the Lionheart is established early as a man of action but little thought. A hermit arrives preaching a great Crusade to bring Jerusalem back into Christian hands. Richard enlists in order, cynically, to get out of an arranged betrothal to Princess Alice of France. A plot is laid against Richards life by his brother Prince John and Conrad, Marquis of Montferrat. En route to the war, Richard meets Berengaria, Princess of Navarre and—again cynically—marries her in exchange for food for his men. Berengaria accompanies Richard to the Holy Land. During the Crusaders attempts to get past the walls of Acre, the allies assemble in conference, but in disarray. Richards ally, Philip II of France, is enraged at Richards rejection of his sister Alice, but Richard defies Philip and the other troubled allies by proclaiming Berengaria Queen of England. The Christian leaders meet in parley with the Muslim Sultan and leader Saladin. Saladin is struck by Berengarias beauty and bravery in supporting her husband. However, he rejects any truce with the Crusaders, and declares that the arrogant Richard will "never pass the gates of Jerusalem." Berengaria is fearful that her presence in camp is causing disloyalty among Richards allies, in particular the powerful French King Philip, and may harm their holy quest. Seeking death, she enters no mans land between the lines, only to be wounded and captured by the forces of Saladin. The hermit, the Christian "holy man" who had preached the Crusade, also is captured. Saladin escapes the siege, and brings Berengaria to Jerusalem to care for her, with admiration and growing affection. Not knowing this, and inflamed to save the Queen of England, Richard and the Crusaders storm Acre, then battle their way to Jerusalem. The internal plot against Richards life is hatched by Conrad and disloyal soldiers. Conrad reveals his plot to Saladin, expecting to be rewarded. Berengaria offers herself to Saladin if he will intervene and save Richards life. Saladin, moved by Berengarias loyalty to Richard and appalled at Conrads perfidy, orders Conrad to be summarily executed and Richard to be rescued. With their forces exhausted, Richard and Saladin agree to a truce, and Berengaria is freed. The gates of Jerusalem are opened to all Christians with the exception of Richard, in keeping with Saladin’s proviso. Forlorn, Richard only belatedly appreciates Berengaria’s loyalty and love for him. Richard encounters Berengaria on her way to the Holy City. He admits his mistakes, but Berengaria proceeds alone toward Jerusalem, their future together unknown.
The Crusades (1935 film)
1935