Arriving in Seattle, Washington, writer Nick Eliot (Cary Elwes) secures a job at Pique magazine and lodging in a guest house belonging to Cliff and Liv Forrester (Kurtwood Smith and Gwynyth Walsh). The handsome Nick soon makes the acquaintance of the Forresters 14-year-old daughter Darien (Alicia Silverstone), a precocious girl who develops an intense attraction to him. She secretly helps Nick by sneaking into his room and rewriting one of his Pique stories, which subsequently wins a rave from his editor/boss, Michael (Matt Walker). At a party thrown by the Forresters, Nick agrees to accompany the lonely girl on a nighttime drive to a romantic spot, where she kisses him. This intensifies Darien‘s crush on Nick, but he quickly wises up and attempts to put her off, having begun a budding romance with coworker Amy (Jennifer Rubin). Darien continues to boldly pursue him, even going so far as to undress in his view while he is hiding in her closet. Nick, however, continues to rebuff her advances, and Darien‘s actions become destructive. She defaces a car hes restored and erases his computer discs, yet hes unable to convince Cliff and Liv of whats going on. Cheyenne (Amber Benson), a friend of Darien who tries to warn Nick about her, meets with an "accident" at the riding school they attend together. After Darien spies on Nick in bed with Amy, she locks Amy in her darkroom and empties a wasps nest into the vents. Amy survives, and Nick, now convinced that Darien is big trouble, attempts to find new lodging. However, Darien manages to sabotage his efforts. She accuses him of sexually assaulting her with "evidence" obtained from a used condom from Nicks trash, leading to his arrest. After Michael bails him out (and suspends him until trial), Nick is met once again by Cheyenne. She informs Nick that she knows he did not do anything to Darien, and that Darien had behaved like this before to a previous crush, a camp counselor named Rick who "accidentally" died by eating something poisonous. Cheyenne also informs Nick of a diary Darien kept that can exonerate him. When Cheyenne leaves, Nick goes looking for her when he hears strange noises from the Forresters house. He discovers Cheyenne bound and gagged in the attic, and is confronted by Darien and then an amazed Cliff, who attacks him thinking he is the enemy. Darien, while still infatuated, attacks her father, leaving Nick free to subdue her with one punch. Acquitted, Nick goes to live with Amy while Darien, confined to a psychiatric hospital, wishes to express her remorse for what she has done to Nick. Her doctor comments that she is making good progress, unaware she is developing a crush on him now. Ultimately, she returns to her room in the psychiatric hospital, where she looks at her doctors wedding photo with an evil glare.
The Crush (1993 film)
1993