As the film opens, two mysterious white circles are moving about on a solid black background. As they move, a womans voice says they must obtain human bodies to carry out their mission. Live action then begins with a man and woman leaving a beach near Cape Canaveral, Florida. The circles descend on them, causing their car to crash. Both are killed. But their bodies suddenly jerk back to life as theyre taken over by the white circles, which are actually extraterrestrials. The womans face is badly cut from smashing into the windshield and the mans left arm has been torn off. When they exit the wrecked car, the male alien, Hauron (Jason Jackson), leaves his severed arm behind. The woman alien, Nadja (Katherine Victor), retrieves it and tells him that shell sew it back on at the laboratory, in an artificial cave theyve built as their headquarters. When Hauron reconnoiters Cape Canaveral one night, an MPs guard dogs attack him and tear off his recently reattached arm. Nonetheless, he uses his "disruptor ray" to shoot down the rockets as soon as theyre launched. The rocket scientists, who dont know about the extraterrestrials, work diligently to try to understand why their rockets are exploding. Meanwhile, Tom Wright (Scott Peters) and Sally Markham (Linda Connell), who both work at the launch site, go on a double-date with their friends Bob (Gary Travis) and Shirley (Thelaine Williams). Tom says that the static coming in over a transistor radio means that an illegal transmitter is operating nearby and theorizes that it may have something to do with the launch failures. He and Sally search for the transmitter, but cant find it. The four go back another night to look again, but while Tom and Sally are searching, Bob and Shirley are kidnapped by Hauron and Nadja. Bob dies during his capture, so Nadja removes his arm and grafts it onto Hauron. She says Bob had a handsome chin and replaces Haurons scarred chin with it. Shirley and Bob are both transmitted to the aliens planet, even though Bob is dead and the aliens have been admonished about sending dead or otherwise damaged specimens. Not knowing that Shirley and Bob have already been transmitted, Tom and Sally find the cave and are captured. Theyre kept intact, although held in place by an electronic device. Tom frees himself after discovering he can disable the device by waving his wristwatchs radium dial at it. He goes for help, but leaves Sally behind, forcing him to return because she is still a captive. Help arrives in the form of sheriffs deputies, Army personnel and rocket scientists. They demand that Nadja and Hauron surrender themselves, but theyre captured en masse. Hauron and Nadja incapacitate them, then revert to circle form to transmit themselves home. But before theyre able to, the captives awaken. Tom, and Sallys father, the head rocket scientist, concoct a method to prevent the extraterrestrials from transmitting themselves. The humans escape from the cave just before a powerful explosion destroys it. They congratulate each other because Sally and Tom have been rescued and now the space program is safe. But just as it appears that all is well, Sally and the chief deputy (Lyle Felisse) get into his patrol car. As they drive out of camera range, the tires screech, there are the sounds of a crash and Sally screams. The two white circles on a black background reappear, exactly as at the start of the film. Are the aliens still here?
The Cape Canaveral Monsters
1960