Born on the Fourth of July, 1900, John Sims (James Murray) loses his father when he is twelve. At 21, he sets out for New York City, where he is sure he will become somebody important, just as his father had always believed. Another boat passenger warns him that he will have to be good to stand out in the crowd. He gets a job as one of many office workers in the Atlas Insurance Company. Fellow employee Bert (Bert Roach) talks him into a double date to Coney Island. John is so smitten with Mary (Eleanor Boardman), he proposes to her at the end of the date; she accepts; Bert predicts the marriage will last a year or two. The couple honeymoon in Niagara Falls. In the tiny apartment next to an elevated train track where the couple live, a Christmas Eve dinner with Marys mother (Lucy Beaumont) and two brothers (Daniel G. Tomlinson and Dell Henderson), with whom John is not on friendly terms, ends badly. John goes to Berts to get some liquor, where a young woman throws herself at him, tells him how handsome he is, and starts dancing with him. John does not return until it is very late and he is very drunk. Marys family has gone home, and she tells him that they dont understand him. "Do you understand me?" he asks, and she answers "I think so." They exchange Christmas gifts and John calls her a "wonnerful little woman", but yells at her when she opens an umbrella in the apartment. In April, they quarrel and Mary threatens to leave. She is shocked and hurt when he does not try to stop her, but the couple reconcile when she reveals she is pregnant. She gives birth to a son. The next five years produce a daughter and an $8 raise, but Mary is dissatisfied with Johns lack of advancement, especially compared to Bert, and Johns big talk about his prospects. Finally, John wins $500 for an advertising slogan; he buys presents for his family. However, when he and Mary urge their children to rush home to see their gifts, their daughter is run over by a truck. John is so deeply affected, he cannot concentrate at work. When reprimanded, he quits. He gets other jobs, but cannot hold onto them. Finally, Marys brothers reluctantly offer him a position. When John is too proud to accept a "charity job", Mary can take no more; she slaps him. John goes for a walk, contemplating suicide, but his son goes with him. The childs unconditional love for him makes him change his mind. He gets work as a sandwich board carrier and returns home, his optimism renewed, only to find Mary about to leave with her brothers. She gets out of the house, but no further. She loves him too much to abandon him. The reconciled family attends a vaudeville comedy show, with the final shot showing them laughing hysterically, lost in the crowded audience of laughing people.
The Crowd (1928 film)
1928