On October 30, Devils Night in Detroit, Police Sergeant Albrecht (Ernie Hudson) investigates a crime scene where Shelly Webster (Sofia Shinas) has been beaten and raped and her fiancé, Eric Draven (Brandon Lee), has died on the street outside after being stabbed, shot, and thrown out the window. The couple were to be married the following day on Halloween. As he leaves for the hospital with Shelly, Albrecht meets a young girl, Sarah (Rochelle Davis), who says that she is their friend, and that they take care of her. One year later, Sarah visits the graves of Eric Draven and Shelly Webster. After she leaves, a crow lands on Erics grave stone and taps it; later that night, Eric comes back to life and climbs out of his grave. Meanwhile, a low-level street gang, headed by T-Bird (David Patrick Kelly), blow up a video arcade. Eric goes to his old apartment and finds it derelict. He has flashbacks to the murders, remembering that those responsible were T-Bird and his gang: Tin Tin, Funboy, and Skank. Eric soon discovers that any wounds he receives heal immediately. Guided by the crow, he sets out to avenge his and Shellys murders by killing the perpetrators. The crow helps Eric locate Tin Tin, who stabbed him the year before. Eric kills him by stabbing him in each vital organ, in alphabetical order, with his own knives and then takes his coat. He then goes to the pawn shop where Tin Tin pawned Shellys engagement ring. Eric forces the owner, Gideon, to return the ring. Eric then tosses rings telling Gideon each of them is a life - a life Gideon helped destroy. He lets Gideon live so that he can warn the others that "death is coming for them" before blowing up his shop. Eric then runs into Albrecht, explains who he is and why he is here. Later, Eric finds Funboy getting high with Sarahs drug-addict mother, Darla. After killing Funboy with an overdose of morphine, Eric talks to Darla, removing the drug from her arm and making her realize that Sarah needs her to be a good mother. Eric later visits Albrecht, at his house. Albrecht tells him what he knows about Shellys death and that he watched as she suffered for thirty hours before dying. Eric touches Albrecht and receives from him the pain felt by Shelly during those hours. As T-Bird and Skank stop at a convenience store to pick up some supplies, Eric arrives and kidnaps T-Bird. Skank follows the pair to the docks and witnesses Eric kill T-Bird by tying him to the drivers seat of his car and forcing him to drive it off the edge of the pier where it explodes and sinks into the harbour. The next day, Sarah and her mother begin to repair their strained relationship. Sarah goes to Erics apartment and talks to him. She tells him that she misses him and Shelly. Eric explains that, even though they cannot be friends anymore, he still cares about her. Skank frantically informs Top Dollar, a top-level criminal who controls all the street gangs in the city, about Eric. Top Dollar and his lover/half-sister Myca have become aware of Erics actions through various reports from witnesses (including Gideon, whom Top Dollar killed afterward). Top Dollar holds a meeting with his associates where they discuss new plans for their Devils Night criminal activities. Eric arrives looking for Skank. A gunfight ensures the deaths of nearly all present, and Eric kills Skank by throwing him out a window. Top Dollar, Myca, and Grange (Top Dollars right-hand man) escape. Eric, having finished his quest, returns to his grave and says goodbye to Sarah. He gives her Shellys engagement ring. She is then abducted by Grange, who takes her into the church where Top Dollar and Myca are waiting. Through the crow, Eric realizes what has happened and goes to rescue her. Grange shoots the crow as it flies into the church, making Eric lose his invincibility. Myca grabs the wounded crow, intending to take its mystical power. Albrecht arrives, intending to pay his respects to Eric, just after Eric is shot and wounded. Top Dollar grabs Sarah and climbs the bell tower as a fight ensues, and Grange is killed by Albrecht. The crow escapes Mycas grip, pecking her eyes out and sending her down the bell tower to her death. When Albrecht is wounded, Eric climbs to the roof of the church on his own. There, Top Dollar admits ultimate responsibility for what happened to Eric and Shelly. In their fight, Eric, despite being fatally stabbed in the back, gives Top Dollar the thirty hours of pain he absorbed from Albrecht; the sensation sends Top Dollar over the roof of the church to be impaled on the horns of a gargoyle. Sarah and Albrecht go to the hospital, and Eric is reunited with Shelly at their graves. Sarah ends the film with a narration: "If the people we love are stolen from us, the way to have them live on is to never stop loving them. Buildings burn, people die, but real love is forever."
The Crow (1994 film)
1994