Teenager Elena Peters and her friends, Missy and Josh, go to a party. Elena witnesses her boyfriend, Brian, with another woman. She leaves the dance floor and enters an isolated room. There, she discovers a red trunk and opens it to find a severely injured Arkin OBrien. Arkin grabs Elena and they dodge a steel spear, which triggers a series of deadly traps that kill everyone on the dance floor. The Collector appears and kidnaps Elena, while Arkin escapes by jumping out of a window, landing on a car and breaking his arm in the process. Arkin is later taken to the hospital, where he is arrested by the police and put under constant surveillance due to his own criminal record. After suffering nightmares of his torture from the Collector, he is approached by Lucello, an employee of Elenas wealthy father, who has hired a team of mercenaries to hunt the Collector down and save Elena. Lucello implies that if Arkin leads them to the Collectors hideout, he will expunge Arkins record. Arkin leads the mercenary group to the Collectors base, an abandoned hotel. Meanwhile, Elena witnesses a man being tortured before escaping from the trunk. Upon the teams arrival, Arkin refuses to go inside, but Lucello forces him at gunpoint to guide them through the hotel. The Collector reenters the room and notices Elena has escaped before being alerted to the teams presence. Upon entering the hotel, the team is attacked by various people who the Collector has captured and driven insane with drugs, forcing the team to shoot them. Arkin takes the opportunity to escape from Lucello. While wandering the hotel in separate groups, Arkin, Elena, and Lucellos team all encounter live humans being experimented on and human body parts rearranged to resemble insects, which are displayed in glass cases. Members of Lucellos team are killed or captured. Elena eventually finds a prisoner named Abby, who claims to be the Collectors "favorite" and is reluctant to break his rules. The two are separated when the Collector finds them. Eventually, Lucello and his surviving team capture Arkin in a room, but the Collector intervenes, kills most of the team, and captures a team member named Paz. Later, Elena and Lucello reunite, rescue Paz, and find Abby, who asks to escape with them. Abby later tries to provide information of the groups location to the Collector before being killed. As police converge at the hotel, attracted to gunshots fired by Arkin, the Collector again kidnaps Elena. Lucello is caught in a trap and has to be left behind. Arkin and Paz find Elena strapped to an autopsy table, but when they approach, they are trapped in a cage that falls from above. The Collector appears and threatens to burn down the building, but Arkin manages to open the cage by having Elena re-break his arm so that he can reach the latch. The group escapes and finds an exit door to the building, but it is jammed from the outside. The Collector appears again, kills Paz, and easily beats Arkin in a fist fight, thanks to the latters broken arm. As the Collector is about to kill Arkin, Lucello intervenes, having escaped from his trap, and sacrifices himself so that Arkin can gain the upper hand. Arkin beats the Collector, throws him down a chute, and sets it on fire. As the building burns down, the firefighters hear Elenas screams and open the door from the outside, allowing Elena and Arkin to escape. As the two sit outside, Arkin notices a pile of trunks and, upon searching inside them, finds the Collectors burned mask with no corpse. Sometime later, Arkin manages to track down the Collectors house by researching every registered entomologist within a 200-mile radius of their last encounter. Arkin confronts the unmasked Collector, holds him at gunpoint, and taunts him about his father, a museum curator who, Arkin has learned, was responsible for the Collectors madness and modus operandi. Arkin announces his intentions of torturing and eventually killing the Collector, so that he can never harm anyone again. When the Collector tries to attack him, Arkin forces him into the red trunk and locks him inside.
The Collection (film)
2012