A Western agent is sent to Communist China in order to retrieve an important agricultural enzyme. What he does not know is that there is a bomb implanted in his head; the forces behind his mission will detonate it if he fails to carry out the assignment. Nobel Prize–winning university professor Dr. John Hathaways mission begins with Lt. General Shelbys request at the US Embassy in London that he travel to China to visit Soong Li, a former professor of Hathaways who reportedly has developed an enzyme that would permit crops to grow in any kind of climate. The hesitant Hathaway is further urged to go by a phone call from the President of the United States. Hathaway is concerned about the situation, as is a friend he knows named Kay. A transmitter is implanted in Hathaways skull as a tracking device. He isnt informed that it also includes an explosive element in case of emergency that can be triggered by the Americans if necessary. Neither the U.S. nor the Soviet Union want the enzyme to remain exclusively in Chinese hands. Hathaway is met in Hong Kong by security chief Yin, who begins by taking Hathaway to meet Red Chinas party chairman. They play a game of table tennis and discuss the enzyme, which the Chairman claims he intends to share with the entire world. He is also reunited with Soong Li and meets his daughter Ting Ling. No one thinks Hathaway is really spying on the Red Chinese regime. Soong Li, possibly betrayed by his daughter, is attacked by Red Guards looking for the formula. Before he dies, Soong Li gives a book to Hathaway containing quotations from the Chairman. The professor flees with the book and a piece of microfilm, trying to reach the Russian border before Yins men can capture him. He is unable to scale a fence, so Shelby elects to set off the explosive device, until Soviet soldiers arrive at the last minute to help Hathaway cross safely. Once safe, the professor discovers that the enzymes formula is hidden in the Chairmans book of quotations. He gets the device removed and returns to Kay.
The Chairman
1969