Valerie West is a young American expatriate living with her wealthy lover, Dick Carmedon, in Paris. Tired of the relationship, she moves out, after which she meets another American ex-pat, struggling artist John Neville. She begins modeling for Neville, including some racy nude sittings. At first the relationship is purely business, but the two soon fall in love, and she moves in with him. The two begin to live an idyllic life, despite Carmedons attempts to get Valerie back. Unbeknownst to Valerie, Neville is not truly a poor artist, being the son of a wealthy family from Tarrytown, New York. When Nevilles sister, Clare Collins, learns of the two living together out of wedlock in Paris, she decides to put an end to the relationship. She enlists a friend of her brothers, Sam, whom goes to Neville and tells him about Valeries past relationship with Carmedon. Unaware of the hypocrisy of his own actions, since he is living with Valerie in an identical relationship as she had with Carmedon, he becomes extremely jealous. Unable to cope with his jealousy, Valerie moves out. As the months go by, Neville runs into Valerie at a nightclub, where she is out with Querido. While Neville is again jealous, he hides it. Seeing him, Valerie understands her feelings about him and asks him to take her back, which he willingly does, shortly after which he asks her to marry him. She defers, wanting to make sure that their feelings for one another are for real before making that commitment. When Clare hears about their reconciliation, she informs Neville that their father is very ill, and asks that he return home. Bringing Valerie with him, Neville returns to the family estate in Tarrytown. In a last ditch effort to break them up, Clare throws a party on the family yacht, to which she also invites Carmedon and an old girlfriend of Nevilles, Stephanie Brown. However, the plan backfires when Carmedon attempts to sexually assault Valerie, and Neville intervenes, knocking Carmedon out. Valerie finally understands that he feels the same way about her as she does about him, and the two dash off to find a justice of the peace to marry them.
The Common Law (film)
1931