Troy Johnson (Josh Janowicz), the supplier of prescription drugs to fellow high school students in the fictional southern California town of Hillside, commits suicide. Troys best friend Dean Stiffle (Jamie Bell), is prescribed more antidepressants by his psychiatrist father Bill (William Fichtner) after discovering the body. When Dean returns to school, he is antagonized by drug dealers Billy (Justin Chatwin) and Lee (Lou Taylor Pucci), who were supplied by Troy. Their friend, Crystal Falls (Camilla Belle), flirts with Dean, but he soon realizes that her true intentions are for Dean to retrieve the remaining drugs in Troys home and refuses to cooperate. To force Dean to procure the drugs, Billy and Lee plan to kidnap Deans brother, Charlie (Rory Culkin), as a ransom, but they end up kidnapping another boy named Charlie Bratley (Thomas Curtis) instead. The kidnappers hold Charlie Bratley – whose parents are unaware that he is missing – overnight at Crystals home. Dean eventually agrees to go to Troys house to find the drugs. Upon delivery, Billy discovers that the bag doesnt contain the prescription drugs and starts a fight with Dean, leading to Deans arrest. While trying to explain everything to Officer Lou Bratley (John Heard), Charlies father, Dean reveals that his brother Charlie replaced the drugs with a bag of the vitamins that their mother Allie (Allison Janney) sells. Neither Officer Bratley nor Deans father believes his story, but he is released, whereupon his father increases his dosage of antidepressants. Meanwhile, Charlie Stiffle crushes the real drugs and puts them into a casserole that his mother made for Troys memorial. The next day is Troys memorial service and the wedding of Mayor Michael Ebbs (Ralph Fiennes) to Charlie Bratleys mother Terri (Rita Wilson). Lou finally realizes that his son actually has been kidnapped and heads out to look for him. Now at Lees house, Crystal asks Lee to help stop the kidnapping scheme, but he does not comply. Crystal goes to Deans house for help, where she finds him hallucinating about Troys death and finally expressing his grief. Meanwhile, a paranoid Lee, encouraged by Billy, tries to kill Charlie Bratley to avoid being caught, but Charlie fights back and slices the knife through Billys eye. Billy runs out into the street, screaming in pain, and is hit by Lous police car. Dean attends Troys memorial, where all of the visitors are intoxicated by the drugs that are in his mothers casserole. Troys mother, Carrie (Glenn Close), discloses to Dean that she never knew her son. Dean tells her about Troy and acknowledges that they were best friends, and she thanks him. Billy is later sent to prison. Lee, who successfully changes the narrative of his involvement during the trial, is acquitted. A closing voice over explains that Dean and Crystal "escape together", and they are shown kissing.
The Chumscrubber
2005