The Country Bears are an all-bear country rock band who have disbanded in 1991 after years of popularity. Beary Barrington (voiced by Haley Joel Osment), a large admirer of the band and a young bear raised by a human family, feels disowned for being different. His father (Stephen Tobolowsky) tells him that his family will love him unconditionally regardless, and that differences lead everyone to their purposes. But Bearys older brother, Dex (Eli Marienthal), tells him the truth about his background. Angry and embarrassed, Beary leaves home and ventures out to Country Bear Hall, the former concert hall of the Country Bears. Beary learns from the property caretaker Big Al (voiced by James Gammon) and the bands manager Henry Dixen Taylor (voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson) that Country Bear Hall is threatened with destruction by greedy banker Reed Thimple (Christopher Walken). After many attempts to raise $20,000 to save Country Bear Hall, Beary suggests to Henry to hold a benefit concert and the two of them set out to reunite the group with the bands bus driver and drummer Roadie (M.C. Gainey). Meanwhile, the Barringtons have enlisted police officers named Officer Cheets (Diedrich Bader) and Officer Hamm (Daryl Mitchell) to find Beary. First, they approach Fred Bedderhead (voiced by Brad Garrett), the harmonica and electric bass player. Fred is working as a security guard on the set of Krystals latest music video and agrees to return for the concert. Henry needs promotion and Beary suggests the groups former promoter Rip Holland (Alex Rocco) whom Henry claimed had "stolen" the Country Bears from him. Henry phones Rip, who gladly agrees to promote the show. After the phone call, it is revealed that Rip was in an office display of a store as he is told to leave. Fred then mentions a talent show history where they defeated an armpit musician named Benny Boggswaggle (Michael Lawrence Morgan) in a talent competition which caused Benny to strike Zeb Zoober on the head with a chair. Meanwhile, Big Al is approached by Reed who learns about the Country Bears plan and about Rip Holland promoting the show. When Big Al realizes that he is talking to Reed, he has Reed look in one direction. By the time Reed looks back, Big Al is on the steps of Country Bear Hall stating "Im chubby, but Im quick." Reed then moves on to his next plan. Next, they approach the bands fiddler Zeb Zoober (voiced by Stephen Root), who has spent all of his years drinking honey at the Swarming Hive Honey Bar restaurant and owes $500.00 to the owner named "Cha-Cha" (Queen Latifah). Zeb wants to return, but cannot do so without paying his debt. Beary places a bet to let Zeb off the hook by beating the house band in a playoff. Zeb starts his performance off by sounding rusty, but warms up and eventually wins. Meanwhile, Officer Cheets and Officer Hamm approach Big Al for directions to where Beary went. Because Big Al does not mention that Beary is friends with them and has joined them, the officers think that the bears have kidnapped Beary. They then approach Tennessee ONeal (voiced by Toby Huss), the one-string guitar player, who is reluctant because he wants nothing more than to reconcile with his ex-girlfriend Trixie St. Claire, the bands keyboard player. At a restaurant, the Country Bears meet a waitress (Jennifer Paige) who is working to become a singer as she sings her upbeat version of "Kick It Into Gear." Afterwards, a news bulletin is seen on television as a television reporter (Paul Rugg) covers a story where the Country Bears and Roadie have "kidnapped" Beary. After being chased by Officers Cheets and Hamm through a car wash, the Country Bears stop at a motel where Beary learns that Trixie St. Claire (voiced by Candy Ford) is performing at the motels bar. Beary informs Tennessee about this and he goes in to reunite with her where they sing "Can Love Stand the Test" together. She subsequently comes with the band to their reunion. They finally head out to find Ted Bedderhead (voiced by Diedrich Bader), the groups lead vocalist and guitarist. Ted is supposedly very wealthy now when they find a mansion where they learn from a gardener (who Zeb claims to look like Elton John) that Ted is still at the local country club working at the wedding. After Ted has the other Country Bears members leave, Fred eventually finds out that he is nothing more than a wedding singer as he sings "Its Not Unusual." Ted is knocked unconscious by Fred and forcefully dragged onto the bus. Meanwhile, Officers Cheets and Hamm return to the Barringtons and set up equipment to prepare for when the Country Bears call in their "demands." The Country Bears learn that Ted had been performing at weddings and birthday parties as he mentions that the "gardener" that they met was indeed Elton John and that Ted rented a room over Johns garage. Zeb claims Ted to be the reason for the bands disestablishment, but Ted claims that he held them together and that no one was grateful, as the other members were all busy drinking honey (a habit of Zeb), blubbering (a habit of Tennessee), and staring into space (a habit of Fred). Beary reminds them that they claimed each other to be family, but Ted claims it to be meaningless publicity. Beary realizes the real meaning of family and returns home. After various petty arguments, the Country Bears read Bearys school essay about them and they realize that Beary was right and decide that they must perform the gig. Reconciling with Beary, Ted insists that they allow him to join them during the concert. But Reed Thimple kidnaps the rest of the Country Bears and steals the bus. Dex suggests that they use part of Bearys tracking device to find them. Reed Thimple reveals to the Bears that he is really Benny Boggswaggle and is wreaking his vengeance on the bears for stealing his one chance at fame. Beary, his family, and Ted track down and rescue the band and head to the concert together. When they arrive at Country Bear Hall, they discover that Reed Thimple has paid Rip to not promote the show, so the concert appears to be headed for failure. Rip even explains his reasons involving business with him ending with the fact that some of it was Reed Thimples idea. As the other Country Bears restrain Henry from attacking Rip, Big Al arrives and asks if the Country Bears are continuing with their concert as planned. When Fred states that nobody arrived, Big Al reveals that everyone had parked in the back field because he did not want any automobiles out on the front lawn. Big Al then opens the doors and a surge of people rush in as Reed Thimple is flushed out vowing to the Country Bears that their feud is not over. The money raised from the concert is revealed to be enough to save the hall and the Country Bears perform with Beary as member of the band. The group performs their song "Straight to the Heart of Love" as the rest of the Barringtons and the audience watch the concert. During the credits, a documentary about the Country Bears is shown with interviews with various celebrity musicians, Officer Cheets, and Roadie. In the post-credits, a scene following the car wash scene had Officer Cheets explaining to Officer Hamm about everyone at the police station wearing a fake mustache as they get to their police car and let the water out of it.
The Country Bears
2002