In a formal concert, Tom, in a tuxedo, is giving a piano recital of "Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2" by Franz Liszt. Jerry, who is sleeping inside the piano, is rudely awakened by the felts, then sits on top of the piano to mock the cat by "conducting" him. Tom flicks Jerry off the piano and continues playing. Jerry arises from under one of the keys. Tom plays tremolo on this key, hammering Jerrys head with it, and then unsuccessfully tries to smash the mouse beneath the keys. As the main theme of the rhapsodys Lassan section sets in, and when Tom lifts his two fingers from playing a trill, the piano continues playing by itself, with Jerry manipulating the felts from inside. To quiet him, Tom whacks Jerry with a tuning tool. In retaliation, Jerry slams the piano keyboard lid onto Toms fingers and then pops out on the far right of the piano to attempt to cut Toms finger with a pair of scissors as he plays a very high note as the rhapsody transitions to its Friska section. After six misses, Jerry substitutes a mousetrap for the white keys just below it. Tom plays the keys on either side for a few seconds, but eventually his finger gets caught in the trap. Jerry prances up and down on the piano, upon which Tom climbs onto the piano in pursuit, continuing to play with his feet. As Tom gets back down on his seat, Jerry dances around on the felts, momentarily changing the tune from the rhapsody to On the Atchison, Topeka and the Santa Fe. Tom then plays a chord where Jerry is bounced repeatedly, while making insulting faces at the cat with each bounce, Tom eventually catches Jerry and throws him into the piano stool. Jerry then crawls out of an opening and manipulates the seats controls, cranking it up and sending it crashing down, causing Tom to land on the keys. Now completely fed up, Tom stuffs Jerry into the felts and then, continuing with the rhapsody, goes crazy on the piano. The felts start bashing Jerry about, spanking him, and squashing him to and fro. Eventually, Jerry emerges in a very angry mood, breaks off some felts and, using them as drumsticks, plays the finale of the rhapsody in one last retaliation. Jerry constantly increases the tempo of his playing and plays two false endings, causing Tom to collapse in exhaustion at the end of the rhapsody. The audience then applauds for the performance, and Jerry takes the praise for himself as a spotlight shines on him.
The Cat Concerto
1946