Jack Hammond stops at a gas station in Newport Beach, California, where he encounters two police officers and a young woman. The officers receive a car radio call that indicates the car Jack is driving is stolen, he panics and kidnaps the woman, holding a candy bar in his pocket such that she believes it is a gun. Fleeing in her car, Jack soon learns that his hostage is Natalie Voss, daughter of a millionaire industrialist. Two police officers pursue them in a squad car with a television crew filming a Cops-style reality show. The car chase moves onto southbound Interstate 5 as Jack decides to flee to Mexico. The chase intensifies, leading to several chaotic events including a medical truck spilling cadavers onto the freeway and Jack accidentally shooting a police cars tire, causing it to flip and crash. Two bystanders attempt to run Jack off the road in their monster truck, but lose control and roll the truck onto its side, where it is hit by a semi-trailer truck and explodes. The news media further dramatize the car chase, covering it under such headlines as "Terror on the Freeway!" and "Kidnapped at 100 Miles per Hour" and going to such lengths as having a reporter hang out the side of a van alongside the speeding car. Jack explains to Natalie that, while working as a clown performing at childrens birthday parties in Sonoma, he was mistaken for the "red-nosed robber", a criminal who had robbed several banks while wearing a clown costume. A blood test sample improperly collected at one of the crime scenes proved Jacks innocence but its inadmissibility lead to his convection and sentence the prior day to 25 years incarceration. During transfer to prison he escapes the guards and steals a car, leading to their present situation. Jacks lawyer explains Jacks predicament to the media and tries to convince him to surrender to the police, but Jack believes escape is his only option. Natalie sympathizes with Jack, and is impressed when he berates her overbearing father. She shares with him her hate for her stepmother and seeks to escape from her dysfunctional family. As the chase continues, she begins to fall in love with Jack, the two have sex while he drives, and she suggests feigning being his hostage so that they can flee together to Mexico. They reach the San Ysidro Port of Entry and find it heavily blockaded. Jack continues to evade the police but eventually stops, telling Natalie that her life cannot be ruined by him, and releases her reluctantly to her father. After considering going out in a blaze of glory, Jack decides to surrender. As he is being arrested, Natalie takes a television producer hostage at gunpoint and releases Jack. The two steal a news helicopter and escape to Mexico, where they relax in freedom on a beach.
The Chase (1994 film)
1994