Candy (Susan Sennett) is a 16-year-old girl who gets kidnapped on her way home from her Catholic school. The three kidnappers include Eddy (Vince Martorano), his partner Jessie (Tiffany Bolling) and Jessies brother Alan (Brad David). After taking her in their van and tying her up, they bury her alive in a Southern California field. They give her a pipe for air, expecting they will soon gain a ransom from her father. Unbeknownst to them, Sean Newton (Christopher Trueblood) - an autistic young boy living nearby - witnesses their crime. He returns home and tries to tell his intolerant parents - Dudley (Jerry Butts) and Audrey (Bonnie Boland) - about what he saw. The kidnappers contact Candys father, Avery Phillips (Ben Piazza), demanding that he pay her ransom with all the diamonds in his jewelry store. However, Avery stays put and doesnt report the abduction to anyone, including Candys mother Katherine (Dolores Dorn). The kidnappers dig Candy up and bring her to their hideout. Jessie and Alan intend to remove Candys ear to present to Avery as leverage, but Eddy prevents this. Jessie and Alan visit the morgue, where they bribe the coroner Charlie (Bill Woodard) to remove an ear from a cadaver. Meanwhile, Eddy and Candy bond, with the former promising the latter that he will not let anyone do harm to her. After Jessie and Alan return to the hideout, Eddy rapes Jessie, who shows signs of mental illness. Eddy presents the ear to Avery, who is unconcerned with their threat to kill Candy. It turns out that Avery is her stepfather. Candy is set to inherit two million dollars from her late father when she turns 21. And with her out of the way, that godsend will belong to him. Meanwhile, Alan heads to the hideout to kill Candy. Sean infiltrates the hideout and discovers Candy, who tells him to contact the police. Alan returns and rapes her. Eddy interrupts the assault and beats Alan. Sean escapes unseen. But when he goes home, he misunderstands Candys instructions and uses a police doll to call a Jewish deli in Brooklyn. Jessie and Alan insist that Candy must die. In the night, Eddy takes Candy to the grave, promising to return and save her. The next morning, he tells Alan he killed her. As Sean watches them drive off, he tries to sneak back with a pair of scissors. However, his mother catches him and gives him a downer to keep him quiet. The kidnappers visit Katherine, who becomes intoxicated and is seduced by Alan. The kidnappers have Katherine call Avery, who is having an affair with his employee Lisa (Phyllis Major). Avery returns home, where he is held at gunpoint by the kidnappers while Alan murders Katherine. Avery leads the kidnappers to the jewelry store, where he delivers to them the contents of the safe. Avery fails to retrieve his revolver. Alan attempts to shoot Eddy, who kills him. Eddy and Jessie try to escape, but Avery kills Jessie and pursues Eddy to the grave site. They have a gunfight that ends with Averys death. Eddy attempts to dig Candy up, but Sean shots him dead with Averys gun. Sean listens to Candys breathing through the pipe. Audrey calls Sean with a cowbell, prompting him to make a trail to his house by sliding down the hill on his backside. Then a gunshot is heard, followed by the sound of the cowbell dropping and Candys breathing in her underground prison. Her final fate remains unknown.
The Candy Snatchers
1973