As the book starts off a coalition of architects, scientists, and doctors known as "The Builders" have assembled Ember, a subterranean city with supplies for its inhabitants to survive at least 200 years, to elude an impending disaster. They handed the first mayor of the city a locked box, holding instructions for the citys inhabitants, to be passed down from one mayor to the next. This passage would continues until the seventh mayor who, in search of a cure for a deadly cough tries multiple times to break it open and fails to break it open ends up dying and is unable to return the box to its rightful place, or inform anyone else of its importance.Two hundred forty-one years after Ember is established the citys faces a big problem as their supplies are in danger of exhaustion, and their hydroelectric generator is in decay. At the graduation ceremony young people are assigned their jobs, Lina Mayfleet is assigned the job of "Pipeworks Laborer" and Doon Harrow is given the "Messenger". However, both are displeased with their given jobs so they mutually exchange assignments in secret. Linas sister, Poppy, exposes the instructions left by the Builders but in teething, leaves them almost illegible. Later, Lina asks Doon to help her reconstruct the paper. After much trial and error, she and Doon decipher the instructions from the Builders, which inform them of how to exit the city of Ember. Linas grandmother dies shortly after, and Lina and Poppy move in with a neighbor, Mrs. Murdo. At work, Doon discovers that the mayor of Ember and a storeroom worker named Looper have been stealing supplies, and he and Lina report the crime. Upon following the instructions given in the note, they discover boats and candles meant for use in the exodus. On their return to Ember, they learn that the mayor has declared them fugitives from the law. Lina is arrested and taken to the mayor, who threatens to throw her in jail. Suddenly, a blackout happens and allows her to escape without being seen. Lina, Doon and Poppy escape in a boat through the river that supplies Embers electricity. When the boat stops, they learn the origin of Ember from a diary left by one of its original colonists. Shortly after they are faced with a very steep climb and emerge onto the surface where they see their city from above and realize for the first time that Ember is underground. They throw a rock with instructions tied to it down to the city in hope that the people of Ember will escape. The novel ends with Mrs. Murdo finding the message on the street.
The City of Ember
2008