The opening credits are followed by the following onscreen words:  "The trouble began."  Dr. Stewart McIver (Richard Widmark) is now in charge of a psychiatric facility, one run for many years by medical director Dr. Douglas Devanal (Charles Boyer). McIver must address the needs of a number of disturbed patients, among them Steven Holte (John Kerr), a possibly suicidal artist, and the self-loathing Mr. Capp (Oscar Levant). All of his responsibilities keep McIver so busy that his wife, Karen (Gloria Grahame), feels increasingly frustrated and ignored. When new drapes are needed for the clinics library, the dour and penny-pinching Victoria Inch (Lillian Gish) orders unattractive ones. Karen McIver takes it upon herself to buy a more expensive and colorful set instead, gaining the approval of the chairman of the board Regina Mitchell-Smythe (Mabel Albertson) but without the knowledge of her husband. What should be an insignificant matter is complicated further by Dr. McIver giving the patients, principally Stevie, permission to design and create the new drapes themselves. Personalities clash. Dr. Devanal, who has a drinking problem, has been having an affair with his secretary Miss Cobb (Adele Jergens) and makes a clumsy pass at McIvers wife as well. McIver begins to fall in love with Meg Rinehart (Lauren Bacall), a member of his staff. Miss Inch privately schemes to expose the unseemly behavior of Devanal at the next meeting of the board and issues a veiled threat to do so to McIver as well, while Devanals wife, Edna (Fay Wray), mistakenly believes McIver to be behind the plot to discredit her husband. Having felt stable enough to go on a date with Sue Brett (Susan Strasberg), another patient, Stevie Holte is very upset to discover that new drapes have been installed, not the ones his artwork was meant to inspire. He disappears, causing a search party to look for him and McIver to fear a suicide. At the next board meeting, Dr. Devanal submits his resignation to the board. After the meeting, the McIvers agree to work on their marriage and head home where they find Stevie having survived his attempt at suicide. At the end of the film, the words appear onscreen.  "The trouble was over."
The Cobweb (film)
1955