Kate Moseley is a world-class figure skater representing the United States in the pairs event at the 1988 Winter Olympics. She has genuine talent, but years of being spoiled by her wealthy father Jack have made her all but impossible to work with. Doug Dorsey is captain of the U.S. ice hockey team at the same Winter Olympics. Just minutes before a game, he and Kate literally run into each other at the arena. During the game, Doug suffers a head injury, damaging his peripheral vision, costing him a a shot in the NHL and forcing him to retire. During Kates event, her partner drops her during their program, costing them a chance at the gold medal. While training for the 1992 Winter Olympics over the next two years, Kate has driven away all potential skating partners with her attitude and perfectionism. Her coach, Anton Pamchenko, has to find a replacement, an outsider who doesnt know that Kate is spoiled and nearly impossible to work with. He proceeds to track down Doug -back home in Minnesota working in a steel mill and as a carpenter on the side- who is living with his brother and playing in a hockey bar league. Desperate for another chance at Olympic glory, Doug agrees to work as Kates partner, even though he has a macho contempt for figure skating. Kates snooty, Prima Donna behavior gets on his nerves immediately, and their first few practices do not go well as they antagonize one another. However, they develop a mutual respect as both strive to outdo one another in work ethic. As their relationship grows warmer, they learn to set aside their differences, becoming a pair to be reckoned with both on and off the ice. At the U.S. Nationals, despite strong performances in the short program and long program, they are placed third and expect their dreams to get to the Olympics are shattered. However, when one of the leading pairs falls during the competition, they advance to second place, earning their spot. At the finals at the Albertville Olympics, they look to be one of the top pairs competing for the gold. Before getting on the ice, they realize they love each other and skate with a passion neither had shown before.
The Cutting Edge
1992