Jim and Slim, a couple of workers at a chemical plant in the fictional New England town of Ravensback, decide to call it a day and head for the bar. Unfortunately, a large buildup of pressure leaks from one of the pipes that starts to form a yellow toxic cloud that drifts across the ground. Meanwhile, a school bus is taking children home. After dropping one child off, five children left on the bus: Paul MacKenize, Jenny Freemont, Ellen Chandler, Tommy Button, and Janet Shore. Suddenly the bus passes through the yellow cloud. After Billy Hart, the local sheriff, finds the idling bus abandoned near a cemetery and the childrens possessions still on it, he radios his deputy Harry Timmons and Molly, an older woman who works at the local general store and acts as the part-time police dispatcher. Pauls sister Suzie is seemingly a slutty blonde whos only interested in Harry and tries to seduce him. Billy orders Harry to set up a roadblock at the intersection of the main highway and the lone road leading into town, recruiting a couple of armed locals, believing that the children were possibly kidnapped. Meanwhile, Dr. Joyce Gould, Tommys mothers female lover, whos hostile towards the sheriff for no reason, goes with him to investigate. She hops on the school bus, where she finds Tommys things on board. She sees Tommy in the cemetery and runs toward him, but falls over on the bus drivers badly burnt corpse. Soon after, Tommy approaches her to give her a hug. When they embrace, Joyce suddenly screams as yellow steam comes from his hands and burns her alive, before he finally releases her corroded body and trudges on. Later, Ellen sneaks through the woods near a road where John Freemont, father of Jenny, is working on his car, which has broken down. Sheriff Hart gives him a lift home while Ellen watches them unnoticed. She decides to go home where she encounters her mother, Rita, who runs to the door to Ellens outstretched arms. She is incinerated as Ellen hugs her. Her father, Bob, then comes to the door and is shocked at the spectacle. Ellen goes to hug him, but he backs away from her into the house while she follows. Paul MacKenize comes home and similarly kills his sister. Pauls father, Cyrus, is then killed after discovering Paul with her body. While John and Billy on the road, they encounter Janet Shore standing in the middle of road who is dazed like the other zombified children, pale-faced and apparently stunned as they put her in the car to drive her home. It turns out that Janet has not yet fully transformed into a radioactive zombie, but she gradually changes into one during the ride (as evidenced by her fingernails shown turning black). After they stopped, she attacks Sheriff Hart who is able to dodge her while she flees the vicinity. Eventually, the zombified Ellen, Tommy, and Paul meet and walk together. They are then spotted by Deputy Harry who radios the station, but is soon killed. The three children converge in front of the general store where an overjoyed (and misguided) Molly comes outside to hug them, but is also roasted to death as her screaming is heard on a police radio dispatcher by John and Billy. Meanwhile, John and Billy are checking other homes in the town finding the occupants dead in much the same way. They go to Johns home to meet his pregnant wife, Cathy and his younger son, Clarkie. They are relieved that Cathy and Clarkie are unharmed. John begins to give orders, but does not divulge any information to Cathy or Clarkie. The five wandering zombies approach Johns house once they spot the people inside. Jenny (Cathy and Johns daughter) appears and attempts to hug Cathy, but John runs out of the house in a panic and pulls her away in time. Meanwhile, Paul climbs to the upper level of the house and is let through the window by Clarkie (who does not realize what Paul is). They play a quiet game of tag after Clarkie hides in his closet as Paul kills him in a typical form. Billy shoots the zombies with his pistol, but the bullets have no effect on them. Cathy, whos still not aware of the childrens zombified state, knocks Billy out with a glass object in order to stop him from shooting them. She then finds Clarkies roasted body and tells John, who runs upstairs and tearfully puts the childs body back to bed. Paul then attacks the adults, while Billy instinctively picks up a replica katana and chops off both Pauls hands as he howls in pain, which kills Paul as the fingernails on his severed hands reverts back to normal. Ellen then breaks through one of the windows with one hand, which is immediately severed by Billy causes her to apparently die. Billy and John then go outside with the sword in hand to find the rest of the zombies. The remaining three zombies, Tommy, Janet, and Jenny, converge at the upper level of Johns barn where they are found by John and Billy who, despite Jennys pleas to John, are promptly dismembered and killed. While an exhausted John collapses to the ground near the barn while Billy wearily goes to his car to radio for help, Ellen suddenly rises from the back seat, grabs Billy by the neck with her remaining hand, and roasts him to death. John hears Billys screaming and approaches with his sword to finish her off. He then flings his sword in disgust and collapses into a deep sleep next to Billys corpse. The next morning, Cathy yells to a still-sleeping John that "its time". He wakes up and runs frantically into the house to help her deliver their third child. As they are delivering the baby, the camera pans over all of the dead bodies, including Sheriff Harts (but not Clarkies). All five of the zombified children are laying peacefully and hacked up. After the baby is delivered, John is aghast and wide-eyed as he notices that his newborn child has black fingernails while being breastfed.
The Children (1980 film)
1980