When David Seville goes off to Europe on a business trip, the Chipmunks, Alvin, Simon and Theodore are left at home with their babysitter, Miss Beatrice Miller. While the three are playing an arcade game of Around the World in Thirty Days with the Chipettes, Alvin and Brittany argue over which would win an actual race around the world, since Brittany beat Alvin in the video game. Diamond smugglers Claudia and Klaus Furschtein overhear the conversation and approach the children, telling them that they will provide them with the means for a real race around the world by hot air balloon, with the winner receiving $100,000. After tricking Miss Miller that Dave wants the Chipmunks meet him in Europe, the Chipmunks and Chipettes meet at the Furschtein mansion and are given dolls for the competition. In reality, the dolls being dropped off are filled with diamonds, and the dolls received are filled with cash, given to them by the buyers. The Chipmunks and Chipettes are unaware what inside the dolls. Also, the chipmunks are chased by two agents sent by Inspector Jamal of Interpol. Both teams begin their travels; while the Chipmunks go to Mexico City, the Chipettes are caught in a storm and Brittany comes very close to becoming eaten by a shark in Bermuda. Both teams eventually meet up in Athens, where Alvin and Brittany begin bickering. What ensues is a large-scale musical number ("The Girls of Rock and Roll") set at the Acropolis before they part ways in their separate balloons. The Chipettes then travel on to Egypt, where they are captured and brought to a young Arabian prince. The girls eventually grab the dolls and escape just as Eleanor arrives carrying a small cooler. After learning that the cooler contains a baby penguin, they head to Antarctica and sing the song "My Mother". As the girls deliver the young penguin to its parents, they are attacked by Claudias henchmen. Afterwards, they notice the torn Chipette doll lying on the floor of the balloon; Jeanette picks it up and diamonds fall out of it. Opening a Chipmunk doll, they find it full of dollar bills, and realize that the whole race was just a set-up to deliver the stolen diamonds. Realizing that the Chipmunks are likely in danger as well, they head off to find them. Meanwhile, the Chipmunks are camping in a jungle near a native village while taking a shortcut. However, after Theodore goes missing, Alvin and Simon are taken captive by some local natives. They soon learn that Theodore is being worshipped as the natives "Prince of Plenty". Alvin and Simon are quickly forced to wear loincloths and are made into Theodores obedient slaves. After learning that they would become sacrificed, the Chipmunks are tied to stakes by the natives, hanging precariously above a pit full of crocodiles. In a desperate attempt to delay their own deaths, they sing "Wooly Bully," which pleases the natives and lasts just long enough for the Chipettes to rescue them. The Chipmunks and Chipettes return to Los Angeles, where they are met at the airport by Claudia and Klaus. The two groups are forced into a car under the false threat of Miss Miller being kidnapped. Dave is arriving home to the airport at the same time, and hears Alvins cries for help. Inspector Jamal runs up, identifying himself, and he and Dave begin to make a chase. While it at first appears that Claudia and Klaus will escape, they are accidentally run off the road by Miss Miller as she is heading to the airport to pick Dave up, who happens to drive up the wrong way towards them by accident. The diamond smugglers are arrested, and Brittany and Alvin argue over who really won the race, but Dave breaks up the argument and guides them to Miss Millers car. Dave tells Alvin that he and the Chipmunks and the Chipettes have a lot of explaining to do. Alvin repeatedly attempts to explain the adventure, causing Dave to yell "ALVIN!" as the film ends.
The Chipmunk Adventure
1987