In 1815, Edmond Dantés, Second Mate of a French merchant vessel, and his friend Fernand Mondego, representative of the shipping company, seek medical help at Elba for their ailing captain. Napoleon Bonaparte, having kept his guardians from killing the pair, exchanges his physician’s services with Edmond for the delivery of a letter. Edmond is sworn to its secrecy, but the exchange is witnessed by Fernand. In Marseille, the company owner Morrell commends Edmond for his bravery, promoting him to captain over First Mate Danglars, who had given Edmond explicit orders not to land at Elba. Edmond thereafter states his intention to marry his girlfriend, Mercédès, whom Fernand lusts after. Fernand and Danglar inform on Edmond regarding Bonapartes letter. Villefort, the citys magistrate, has Edmond arrested, but initially prepares to exonerate Edmond until he learns the letter is addressed to Villeforts father, a Bonapartist. He burns the letter and orders Edmond imprisoned in Château dIf. Edmond escapes, and turns to Fernand for help, but Fernand instead turns him over to the pursuing Gendarmes. Edmond is consigned to the island prison and its sadistic warden, Armand Dorleac. Villefort has Fernand assassinate his father in exchange for persuading Mercédès that Edmond has been executed for treason and that she should take comfort in Fernand. Six years later, Edmond is startled in his cell by an eruption in the ground revealing another prisoner. Abbé Faria, who has been imprisoned for 11 years after he refused to tell Bonaparte the whereabouts of the treasure of Spada, has dug an escape tunnel. In exchange for his help digging a new escape tunnel, Edmond is educated by Faria in all manner of scholarship and swordplay for the next 7 years. Faria dies in a tunnel cave-in but before expiring he reveals a map to the treasure. Edmond escapes by switching himself for Farias body in the body bag, and is thrown into the sea, pulling Dorleac along with him, whom he drowns. Floating ashore, Edmond encounters a band of pirates preparing to execute a fellow pirate, Jacopo, (Luis Guzmán). Their leader, Luigi Vampa, decides justice and entertainment would be better served by pitting Edmond and Jacopo in a knife fight. Edmond wins, but spares Jacopo, who swears himself to Edmond for life, and they both work for the pirates until they arrive in Marseille. Edmond learns from Morrell, who does not recognize him, that Fernand and Danglars are complicit in his betrayal, and that Fernand and Mercédès have wed. With Jacopo, he locates Farias treasure, and using his newfound wealth and comprehensive education, he establishes himself in Parisian society as "The Count of Monte Cristo." Edmond ingratiates himself to the Mondegos by staging the kidnap and rescue of their son, Albert (Henry Cavill). He lures Fernand, Villefort and Danglars into a trap by letting slip the notion that he has located the treasure of Spada, and is shipping it through Marseille. Danglars is caught red-handed in the act of theft. Villefort is tricked into revealing his role in his fathers death and is arrested. Fernand is ruined as Edmond has his gambling debts called in. Even though his appearance has dramatically changed, Edmond is recognized by Mercédès. Eventually, she softens him and they rekindle their relationship. As Fernand prepares to flee, Mercédès reveals the only reason she married him was that she was pregnant with Albert, who is really Edmond’s son. Edmond ambushes Fernand in the ruins of an estate, having led Fernand to believe that the treasure of Spada would be waiting for him. Albert intervenes when Edmond attempts to kill Fernand, but Mercédès tells him of his true parentage. Fernand attempts to flee, but changes his mind upon realizing that he has nothing left to live for, and challenges Edmond to a fight to death; Edmond prevails. Edmond purchases Château dIf, intending to raze it, but instead leaves it standing as he swears to Faria to use his vast resources for good.
The Count of Monte Cristo (2002 film)
2002