Jacques Saunière, the Louvres curator, is pursued through the Great Gallery by an albino Catholic monk named Silas, who demands the location of the Priorys "keystone" to find and destroy the Holy Grail. Saunière ultimately gives him a false lead and is murdered. When the police arrive, they find his body posed like Da Vincis Vitruvian Man. The police Captain ,Bezu Fache, summons American symbologist Robert Langdon to examine Saunières body and shows him a Polaroid of the body while he signs autographs at one of his public talks. Langdon then discovers a secret message only readable by blacklight that contains an out-of-order Fibonacci sequence. Sophie Neveu, a police cryptographer and Saunières granddaughter, reveals to Langdon that Fache planted a tracker on him after finding the words "P.S. Find Robert Langdon" at the end of Saunières secret message, leading Fache to believe Langdon murdered Saunière. The two get rid of the tracker and sneak around the Louvre, finding more clues in Leonardo da Vincis works, eventually leading to Langdon to deduce that Saunière was the grand master of the Priory of Sion. Silas is revealed to be working for an anonymous person named the Teacher, along with members of Opus Dei, led by Bishop Aringarosa. Evading the police, Langdon and Sophie travel to the Depository Bank of Zurich, discovering a safe deposit box of Saunières that is accessed using the Fibonacci sequence. Inside is a cryptex, a cylindrical container that hides a papyrus message which can only be accessed by spelling out a code word using dials. The police arrive and Langdon and Sophie are aided by the bank manager, Andre Vernet, only for him to take them hostage in the back of a truck, and hold them at gunpoint demanding the cryptex. Langdon disarms Vernet and flees with Sophie and the cryptex. The two visit Langdons friend, Sir Leigh Teabing, a Holy Grail expert, who claims the Grail is not a cup but instead Mary Magdalene, Jesus Christs wife. Teabing argues that she was pregnant during His Crucifixion, and the Priory was formed to protect their descendants. The Opus Dei have been trying to destroy the Grail to preserve the credibility of the Vatican. Later, Silas breaks into Teabings house, but Teabing knocks him out with one of his prescription crutches. The group escapes to London via Teabings private plane, along with his butler, Remy Jean. They travel to the Temple Church, but the clue to unlocking the cryptex is a red herring. Silas is freed by Remy while claiming to be the Teacher and taking Teabing hostage, dumping him in his cars trunk while Silas hides out in an Opus Dei safe house. Teabing poisons Remy and sends the police after Silas, who is shot by police after accidentally wounding Aringarosa, who is promptly arrested by Fache for using him to hunt Langdon. Langdon and Sophie are confronted by Teabing, who is revealed to be the Teacher, and who wants to bring down the Church for centuries of persecution and deceit. The trio goes to Westminster Abbey to the tomb of Isaac Newton, a former grand master of the Priory. Langdon tosses the cryptex into the air, and Teabing dives for it. He catches it, but the papyrus is already destroyed. The police arrive to arrest Teabing, but he realizes Langdon removed and solved the cryptexs code beforehand. The code is revealed to be "apple" after the apocryphal myth of the apple which led Newton to discover his law of universal gravitation. The clue inside the cryptex leads Langdon and Sophie to Rosslyn Chapel in Scotland. Inside the church, they discover Magdalenes tomb has been removed. Langdon later realizes that Sophies family died in a car crash, but the media reported she too had died. Ultimately that Saunière was not her actual grandfather but her protector, and she is the last descendant of Jesus Christ. The two are greeted by several members of the Priory, including Sophies grandmother, who promises to protect her. Langdon and Sophie part ways, the former returning to Paris. While shaving, he cuts himself and has an epiphany when his blood curves down the sink, reminding him of the Rose Line. Realizing the true meaning of the cryptex clue, he follows the line to the Louvre, concluding the Holy Grail, the sarcophagus of Mary Magdalene, is hidden under a shopping mall near the Louvre, below the Pyramide Inversée. Langdon kneels before it, as the Knights Templar did before him.
The Da Vinci Code (film)
2006