Jack Hall, an American paleoclimatologist, and his colleagues Frank and Jason, drill for ice-core samples in the Larsen Ice Shelf for the NOAA, when the shelf breaks apart. Jack warns of global warming to a UN conference in New Delhi, but US Vice President Raymond Becker dismisses his concerns. Professor Terry Rapson of the Hedland Centre in Scotland shares Jack’s views of an inevitable climate shift and they become friends. Several buoys in the Atlantic Ocean show a severe ocean temperature drop, leading Rapson to conclude Jack’s theories are correct. Jack and Rapson’s teams, along with NASA meteorologist Janet Tokada, build a forecast model based on Jack’s research. Eventually, a storm system develops in the northern hemisphere, splitting into three superstorms above Canada, Scotland, and Siberia. The gigantic "hurricanes" pull frozen air from the upper troposphere into their center, sending air temperature there below -150 degrees Fahrenheit. The subzero temperatures of the superstorms eyes cause flash freezing. Meanwhile, the weather becomes increasingly bad around the world, Tokyo is struck by a giant hail storm and Los Angeles and Hollywood are devastated by a tornado outbreak. In New York, Jack’s son Sam, and his friends Brian, J.D., and Laura Chapman participate in an academic decathlon. The city begins to fill with rain, with a huge storm surge after, getting Sam’s group stuck in the New York Public Library. Sam contacts Jack and his mother Lucy, a doctor, Jack advising him to stay inside, and promises to rescue him. Rapson and his team perish in the European storm, while Lucy remains in a hospital caring for bed-ridden children, until saved by the authorities. Upon Jack’s suggestion, US President Blake orders the southern states to be evacuated into Mexico, the northern half doomed to be hit by the superstorm. Blake is caught in it and dies, making Becker the new President. Jack, Jason, and Frank make their way into New York, but Frank falls through the skylight of a mall, cutting his rope to prevent his friends from falling in after him. In the library, most survivors decide to head south against Sam’s warnings, and later freeze to death. Sam, his friends, and other likeminded survivors remain inside, burning books to stay warm. Laura, wounded during the flooding, develops blood poisoning from her injury. Sam, Brian, and J.D. search a Ukrainian cargo vessel "Odessa", that drifted into the city, for penicillin. They encounter a pack of wolves which escaped from Central Park Zoo. The eye of the North American storm arrives, freezing Manhattan, but Sam’s group escape into the library just in time. Jack and Jason also survive it. Days later, the superstorms dissipate. Jack and Jason reach the library, discovering Sam and the others have survived. Becker, in his first address as President, apologises on television for his ignorance, vowing to send helicopters to rescue survivors in the northern states. Jack and Sam’s group are picked up in Manhattan, where many people have survived. On the International Space Station, astronauts look down in awe at the frozen Earth, now free of pollution.
The Day After Tomorrow
2004