The depletion of the Earths ozone layer by aerosols has been causing increased exposure to UV radiation at high altitudes. Scientists observe that animals over 5,000 feet in altitude become highly aggressive. At Murphys Hotel in an alpine village somewhere in Northern California, Steve Buckner (Christopher George) prepares to board a dozen hikers into two helicopters to fly up the mountain to Sugar Meadow, where they will begin a days-long nature hike. Local ranger Chico Tucker (Walter Barnes) privately tells Steve that there have been all kinds of accidents lately and maybe this hike isnt a good idea, but Steve refuses to call it off. Steve and his group then set off, which after a short rest, the group is introduced; anthropologist Professor MacGregor (Richard Jaeckel). Frank and Mandy Young (Jon Cedar and Susan Backlinie) are a bickering married couple. A wealthy older woman, Shirley Goodwyn (Ruth Roman) and her son, Johnny (Bobby Porter). Paul Jenson (Leslie Nielson), an advertising executive with an angry, derisive sense of humor. Bob Dennins (Andrew Stevens) and Beth Hughes (Kathleen Bracken), a teenage couple. Roy Moore (Paul Mantee), a former professional football player sidelined by cancer. Terry Marsh (Lynda Day George), a television reporter. The steadiest person among them is Daniel Santee (Michael Santee), a Native American guide. Meanwhile, in the restaurant of Murphys Hotel, Tucker sits down with Burt, the local sheriff, and tells him theres been a spate of rattlesnake bites. At that moment a reporter on the television set over the bar says a White House bulletin is claiming that chemical waste released into the atmosphere has dangerously depleted the ozone layer, which protects all life from the suns radiation. On the mountain, the hikers stumble upon a camp where a fire is burning and coffee cups are ready to be filled, but nobody is around. Steve says the campers will soon be back. He leads the hikers to a nearby spot to bed down for the night. They build a fire, and while Daniel pulls Steve aside to tell him that something strange is going on in the woods. Steve asks him not to say anything to panic the others. The two decide to take turns standing guard. That night, as Terry wonders why the other campers havent returned, several wolves attack Mandy in her sleeping bag. The campers chase them off, but Mandys hand has been badly bitten and she needs to get to a hospital. At daybreak, Mandy and Frank leave the others and hike to a nearby ranger tower to call for a helicopter, but birds gather in the trees and circle overhead. Suddenly, hawks swoop down and attack her, and before Frank can chase them off, Mandy falls over a cliff to her death. Meanwhile, as the rest of the hikers continue down the mountain, Johnny picks up snatches of radio reports about an ozone emergency resulting in a chemical imbalance in the forest. When Johnny alarms the other hikers, Shirley shouts at him and accidentally knocks his radio into a creek. When the hikers reach a spot where food has been left for them, the boxes have been ripped apart by raiding animals and nothing is left. Jenson, challenging Steves competence, says the group should stay there and wait for a helicopter to return, but Steve insists on pushing on down the mountain. Frank is wading through a creek when he finds a little girl standing on the bank. Frank asks the girl where her parents are, but she is in shock and doesnt react to him until a hawk swoops down and makes her scream. Frank picks her up and carries her. At the camp, after wolves attack the hikers again and injure Daniel, Jenson (who is clearly growing more crazy due to the radiation now affecting him) says hes going to walk back up the mountain to the ranger tower, which is closer than the village, and talks Shirley, Johnny, Bob and Beth into going with him. The others continue down the mountain. That night, as lightning flashes and rain pours, Jenson suddenly becomes violent for no reason by insulting Shirley and threatens to toss Johnny off a cliff. Bob and Beth realize theyve made a mistake by coming with Jenson as he is the only human now affected by the suns radiation, but before they can leave, Jenson kills Bob with a blow from his walking stick and drags Beth away to rape her, but large grizzly bear appears and Jenson wrestles the bear, which kills him by biting his neck out. Shirley and Johnny grab Beth and run away. That night in town, Ranger Tucker is awakened by the telephone. Burt tells him the National Guard is in town to evacuate everybody above 5,000 feet where the radiation is the strongest and is making all animals go crazy and attack people. As Tucker hangs up, he hears something rattling and gnawing. He turns on the kitchen light, finds the room empty, and gets a plate of chicken out of the refrigerator. But as Tucker goes into a drawer for a knife, some rats jump onto the table. Tucker tries to stab them, but a couple of rats leap on him. Tucker runs upstairs to wake his wife, Rita. They hurry outside and get into their car and escape before several vicious dogs can bite them. In the morning, after a night of walking, Frank and the little girl arrive in the deserted village. Outside Murphys Hotel, a mad dog attacks them. Frank puts the girl inside a vehicle and grabs a hammer from a toolbox and makes a run for his car not far away. As soon as Frank reaches his car and opens the passenger door, several rattlesnakes inside bite him. This results in the dog attacking Frank and killing him. Meanwhile, Shirley, Johnny and Beth take sanctuary in a grounded Park Ranger helicopter whose pilot has been killed by a pack of dogs. Steves group is attacked by another pack of wild dogs at a camp of dilapidated cabins. Professor MacGregor and Roy are both killed by the dogs, as Steve, Terry and Daniel Santee run. The three hurry down to the nearby creek and push a raft into the water, but as they push off, the dogs leap onto the raft, forcing them overboard. The three hang on as a current catches the raft and pulls it downstream through rapids while the dogs pursing them on the raft drown. Some time later, Shirley, Johnny and Beth are still in the grounded helicopter. Everything is quiet and the dogs are all dead. As Johnny and Shirley step out of the chopper, they hear another helicopter coming and wave their hands as it approaches. In town, U.S. Army soldiers in hazardous-material suits approach Murphys Hotel. Dead birds and animals lay everywhere, killed by the very same solar radiation that drove them crazy in the first place. Four of the soldiers see the little girl hiding inside the car were Frank left her and rescue her. Not far away, Steve, Terry and Daniel are sleeping on the drifting raft when they hear voices and a distant siren. Looking up, they see a dozen people standing on a bridge, welcoming them back to the normal world. In the final shot, a surviving eagle flies at the camera.
The Day of the Animals
1977