SFPD Inspector Harry Callahans testimony against crime kingpin Lou Janero puts the mobster in prison. Callahan becomes famous and the target of Janeros men, both of which he dislikes. After Callahan kills four attackers during an ambush, the department assigns Al Quan (Evan Kim) as his partner; Callahan advises him to get a bulletproof vest as his partners often get killed. They investigate the death of rock singer Johnny Squares (Jim Carrey), found in his trailer during filming of a slasher film directed by Peter Swan (Liam Neeson) at the Port of San Francisco. Dean Madison, Swans executive producer, is killed during a Chinatown restaurant robbery. Callahan kills four of the robbers, and Quan captures the fifth. They discover a list in Madisons pocket with Callahan and Squaress names on it, and learn that Madison and Swan are participants in a "dead pool" game, in which participants predict celebrity deaths in the Bay area, whether by accident, violence, or natural causes. Another on Swans list, movie critic Molly Fisher, is killed by an intruder claiming to be Swan, causing panic among the surviving celebrities and making Swan a suspect. After Callahan destroys a television stations camera filming Squaress girlfriend, to avoid a lawsuit he must cooperate with reporter Samantha Walker (Patricia Clarkson). She offers to drop the lawsuit if the famous detective agrees to a profile of his controversial career, but Callahan accuses her of wanting to exploit the danger he is in for ratings. They survive another attack by Janeros men; the incident, and her own unwillingness to be the subject of news coverage, cause the reporter to reconsider the dangers police officers face versus the publics right to know. At San Quentin State Prison, where Janero is serving his sentence, Callahan uses triple murderer Butcher Hicks to threaten Janero if anything happens to him. Janero ends the attacks, and assigns two men to Callahan as his personal bodyguards. Gus Wheeler, claiming responsibility for the murders, douses himself in gasoline and threatens to immolate himself. He is not the murderer, but an attention seeker desperate to appear on camera. Walker foils Wheelers plan by refusing to film him; Wheeler accidentally sets himself on fire, but Callahan saves him. Impressed by her refusal to exploit Wheeler, Callahan and Walker become close. Swan tells Callahan and Quan of Harlan Rook, a schizophrenic and deranged fan who thinks the director stole his ideas and work; Swan has a restraining order against him. Rook kills talk show host Nolan Kennard, another person on the dead pool list, using a radio-controlled car filled with C4 explosive under the victims vehicle. Callahan finds a toy car wheel at the crime scene, and later sees another toy car following him and Quan. Recognizing the threat, they flee through the city pursued by the car and Rook himself. The detectives are trapped in an alleyway, but their cars engine takes most of the blast; Quan survives with only broken ribs, thanks to his bulletproof vest. Rook, claiming to be Swan, calls Walker at the television station and invites her to Swans film studio for an interview. The police discover at Rooks apartment torn posters of Swans films, large quantities of explosives, and Walkers name replacing Callahans on the dead pool list. At the studio, Callahan confronts Rook holding Walker hostage. The detective surrenders his .44 Magnum revolver after Rook threatens to slit her throat. Callahan lures Rook to a pier after a chase during which Rook shoots at him with his own gun. Rook runs out of ammunition, and Callahan shoots Rook with a Svend Foyn harpoon cannon, impaling him. Callahan leaves with Walker as the police arrive.
The Dead Pool
1988