When a flying saucer lands in Washington, D.C., the Army quickly surrounds it. A humanoid (Michael Rennie) emerges, announcing that he has come in peace. When he unexpectedly opens a small device, he is shot by a nervous soldier. A tall robot emerges from the saucer and quickly disintegrates the soldiers weapons. The alien orders the robot, Gort, to stop. He explains that the now-broken device was a gift for the President which would have enabled him "to study life on the other planets". The alien, Klaatu, is taken to Walter Reed Hospital. After surgery, he uses a salve to quickly heal his wound. Meanwhile, the Army is unable to enter the saucer; Gort stands outside, silent and unmoving. Klaatu tells the Presidents secretary, Mr. Harley (Frank Conroy), that he has a message that must be delivered to all the worlds leaders simultaneously. Harley tells him that such a meeting in the current political climate is impossible. Klaatu suggests that he be allowed to go among humans to better understand their "unreasoning suspicions and attitudes". Harley rejects the proposal, and Klaatu remains under guard. Klaatu escapes and lodges at a boarding house as "Mr. Carpenter", the name on the dry cleaners tag on a suit he took. Among the residents are young widow Helen Benson (Patricia Neal) and her son Bobby (Billy Gray). The next morning, Klaatu listens to the boarders speculate about the aliens motivations. While Helen and her boyfriend Tom Stevens (Hugh Marlowe) go out, Klaatu babysits Bobby. The boy takes Klaatu on a tour of the city, including a visit to his fathers grave in Arlington National Cemetery; Klaatu learns that most of those buried there were killed in wars. The two visit the Lincoln Memorial, and then the heavily guarded spaceship. Klaatu asks Bobby who the greatest living person is; Bobby suggests Professor Barnhardt (Sam Jaffe). Bobby takes Klaatu to Barnhardts home, but the professor is absent. Klaatu adds an equation to a problem on Barnhardts blackboard and leaves his contact information with the suspicious housekeeper. That evening a government agent takes Klaatu to Barnhardt. Klaatu explains that the people of other planets have concerns now that humanity has developed rockets and a rudimentary form of atomic power. Klaatu declares that if his message is ignored, "Earth will be eliminated". Barnhardt agrees to gather scientists from around the world at the saucer; he then suggests that Klaatu give a harmless demonstration of his power. Klaatu returns to his spaceship that night, unaware that Bobby has followed him. Bobby sees Gort render two soldiers unconscious and Klaatu enter the saucer. Bobby tells Helen and Tom what he saw, but they do not believe him until Tom takes a diamond he found in Klaatus room to a jeweler and learns it is "unlike any other on Earth". Klaatu finds Helen at her workplace, and they take an empty service elevator, which stops precisely at noon. Klaatu reveals his true identity, then asks for her help. He has neutralized all electricity everywhere for 30 minutes, except for such things as hospitals and aircraft in flight. After Tom informs the authorities of his suspicions, Helen breaks up with him. She and Klaatu go to Barnhardts home. En route he tells her that should anything happen to him, she must say to Gort, "Klaatu barada nikto". Their taxi is spotted and hemmed in; Klaatu makes a break for it and is shot dead. Helen quickly heads to the saucer. Gort kills two soldiers standing watch and advances on her. When Helen utters Klaatus words, the robot carries her into the spaceship, then leaves to retrieve Klaatus body. Gort brings Klaatu back to life, but he explains to Helen that his revival is only temporary. Klaatu addresses Barnhardts assembled scientists, informing them that he represents an interplanetary organization that created a police force of invincible robots like Gort. "In matters of aggression, we have given them absolute power over us". Klaatu concludes, "Your choice is simple: join us and live in peace, or pursue your present course and face obliteration". Klaatu and Gort re-enter the spaceship and depart.
The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951 film)
2008