Artist Reno Miller (Abel Ferrara) and his girlfriend Carol enter a small Catholic church, where he approaches an elderly bearded man (revealed as Renos estranged derelict father) kneeling at the pulpit. The derelict seizes Renos hand, causing him and Carol to flee from the church, unknown to him that the derelict contained a paper with Renos information and requested a meeting with him. Reno denies knowing who the derelict was. Later, at his apartment, Reno receives a large Con-Ed electrcity bill, the phone bill and cannot pay his rent. He shares an apartment with Carol, a former flight attendant, and her drug-addicted lover Pamela, in a derelict-filled neighbourhood in Union Square. Reno visits Dalton, an art gallery owner, and tells him that he is currently painting a masterpiece. Reno asks for a week’s extension and a loan of $500 to cover the rent, however Dalton refuses, saying that he already lent enough money to Reno. However, if Reno finishes a satisfactory painting in one week, Dalton will buy it for the necessary amount. The following day, a No Wave band entitled the Roosters begin practising their music in a nearby apartment, in which the music makes Reno unnerved and frustrated. At 2:00 in the morning, Reno becomes more agitated from the Roosters music while painting. After seeing his own image saturated in blood, Reno walks the streets in the dark. He sees an elderly derelict sleeping in a garbage-strewn alley, where he grabs the bum and begins ranting. Reno ducks with the bum into the alley where they see a small group of teenage gang members chasing another homeless bum down the street. When the gang members are gone from sight, Reno drops the bum to the ground and walks away, vowing that he will not end up like a derelict. The next day, Reno complains about the Roosters to their landlord. However, the landlord refuses to act because the music does not bother him (implying that the band bribes him to ignore their loud music). He gives Reno a skinned rabbit for dinner, but instead demands the rent money. Reno takes the rabbit home and repeatedly stabs it while preparing it. During a brief reprieve from the music, Reno mentally hears voices calling his name and sees an image of an eyeless Carol. That night, Reno leaves outside and armed with a power drill connected to a portable battery pack. He discovers another derelict inside an abandoned building and brutally kills him. The following evening, Reno, Carol, and Pamela see Tony Coca-Cola and the Roosters at a nightclub. As the Roosters play, Reno becomes irritated by the music and crowd and leaves while Carol and Pamela dance and kiss.  Reno returns to his apartment, grabs his drill and goes out on a killing spree. Throughout the night, Reno kills a number of homeless bums all over the city before returning home to sleep. Later, Tony visits Reno’s apartment and asks Reno to paint a portrait of him, in which Tony agrees to pose for Renos demand of $500 rent bill. As Reno paints, Tony poses by playing his guitar and kissing Pamela. A derelict in a nearby alley (upset by the noise) is later attacked and killed by Reno. Afterwards, Reno completes his painting, where he then wakes and notifies Pamela and Carol. The next day, Reno and Carol show the painting to Dalton who leaves after declaring it “unacceptable” and Carol yells at Reno for sitting with a blank facial expression, resulting her leaving Reno for her ex-husband Stephen by the next morning. That evening, Reno calls Dalton and invites him to see another painting. When Dalton arrives as the Roosters are practising, a dressed-up Reno kills him with his drill. After visiting the Roosters, Pamela returns to the apartment where, upon the discovery of Dalton’s body inside, she flees into the hallway before Reno grabs her. Pamelas fate is left ambiguous. Across town, Carol is back with Stephen at his apartment. She takes a shower while Stephen prepares tea. Reno enters the apartment, kills Stephen, and then hides his body behind a kitchen counter. Carol, exiting from her shower, walks to the bedroom where Reno hides under the bed covers. She turns off the lights, gets into bed, and tells Stephen to "come here..."; The film suddenly ends, leaving Carols ultimate fate unknown.
The Driller Killer
1979