Late at night in a countryside house, Raymond Smilie hears a voice. He reacts by playing his red Flying V loudly in front of a crucifix. His mother enters his room and unplugs the guitar. When Ray awkwardly explains he plays to avoid hearing "Him," she says he needs to return to the hospital. Ray continues to hear the voice and kills his mother, who falls down the stairs. Shortly after, a man enters the house and sees the dead woman. Some time later, the house is sold to Jesse Hellman, a struggling painter. Jesse, along with his wife Astrid and daughter Zooey, move into the house. Elsewhere, Ray checks into a motel. He listens to tapes preaching about the Devil, and plays his guitar. When a noise complaint brings a police officer to his room, Ray stops playing. After settling in, Jesse starts hearing voices. Inspired, he paints a black and white painting based on an upside down cross motif. Jesse later approaches Belial, an art gallery whose owner Leonard previously turned away his portfolio. At his insistence, the receptionist looks at the scan of the painting and appears pleased. One evening, Ray shows up and has a brief conversation with Zooey, who tells him she would love to have a Flying V. Ray wants to enter the house, but a disturbed Jesse turns him away. The next morning, Zooey and Jesse find Rays Flying V outside their house, but Jesse refuses to let her keep it. Elsewhere, Ray kidnaps a young boy. He carries the boy to a motel room, cuts up his body and puts it in a suitcase. Ray buries the boy in a hole already filled with several suitcases. Meanwhile, Jesse paints a new painting with distorted faces of children - including the one Ray killed. Immersed in his work, he forgets to pickup Zooey at school, and to appease her, he lets her keep Rays guitar. Jesse keeps working on the painting, which depicts the childrens heads being devoured by a black creature, and adds Zooey being burned alive. He tells a horrified Astrid that the he feels the children inside him screaming to be let out. At night, Ray sneaks into Zooeys bedroom. He covers her mouth and explains that "He" wants her, but Ray is trying to avoid hurting her. Zooey agrees to stay quiet, but then screams, alerting Astrid and Jesse. Ray flees. The Hellmans go to the police, who begin identifying the man. The next day, Leonard arrives to see Jesses latest work. Pleased with the painting, Leonard offers him some wine. Despite his initial hesitation as he needs to pick up Zooey at school, Jesse drinks with Leonard. As he rushes to Zooeys school, his car tires blows out and he runs to the school, but Zooey is nowhere to be found. In Rays motel bathroom, Zooey is tied up with duct tape. Ray tells Zooey that he can no longer resist "Him," and that "He" considers her "the sweetest candy." While Ray prepares to kill her, Zooey frees herself and escapes. At the police station, the Hellmans are reunited. The police tells Jesse of Rays identity and history of mental illness. Ray explained that he served the Devil, and that the murdered children were "His candy". The Hellmans are escorted home, and two policemen are stationed outside the house, with the intention of placing them under witness protection the following day. That same night, Ray kills the two policemen and takes a gun from them. He shoots Jesse and Astrid, drags Zooey upstairs into her room, splashes gasoline on the floor, then sets the room on fire. Astrid, still alive, wakes Jesse up and the two leave the house. Jesse climbs through Zooeys bedroom window, fights Ray, and bludgeons him to death with his own guitar. Jesse gets Zooey safely to the ground. He walks to a spot near the house, where he finds the childrens bodies that Ray had buried. As the sun rises, Jesse looks to the sky, smiles, and starts to cry.
The Devil's Candy
2017