The scene descends upon Pimento University ("good old P.U."), the college where the three inseparable Dover brothers, athletic oldest brother Tom (on a tandem bicycle with a perpetual wheelie), middle child Dick (on a self-propelled penny-farthing whose pedals are too far away for Dick to reach), and portly, curly-haired youngest brother Larry (on a tricycle), attend school. "A gay outing at the park has been planned by the merry trio, and they are off to fetch their fiancée, dainty Dora Standpipe, at Miss Cheddars Female Academy, close by." The Boys are called upon to rescue Dora when she is kidnapped by the nefarious stock villain Dan Backslide. "The former sneak of Roquefort Hall, coward, bully, cad, and thief, and arch-enemy of the Dover Boys," his feelings for Dora are summed up in his comment, "How I love her! … (fathers money!)" Backslide then steals a conveniently placed, unoccupied runabout (after loudly declaring his intention to do so, ironically claiming that "NO ONE WILL EVER KNOW!"), which he uses to kidnap an oblivious Dora while she and the Dover Boys are playing hide-and-seek, spiriting her away to a remote mountain lodge. But Backslide soon discovers that, despite appearances, Dora is anything but dainty; she proceeds to administer a sound thrashing to the villain, all the while acting the damsel in distress—crying for help and pounding on the door (with the locks on her side) and on Backslide—until he is himself crying out for help from Tom, Dick, and Larry. Although the boys had heard Doras cries for help, it is not until a scout witnesses Doras captivity, then sends a distress signal via semaphore, then via telegram, to the boys that they respond by breaking Toms tandem bike into three unicycles and race to the scene. When the Dover Boys finally arrive, they lay a few punches on the by-now barely conscious Backslide before managing to knock each other out in unison as Backslide collapses to the floor safely beneath their swinging fists. Dora is then escorted away by an odd grey-bearded man in a nineteenth century bathing suit and sailors cap who was a running gag throughout the cartoon, appearing periodically to interrupt the story by shuffling across the screen to the tune of Ed Haleys "While Strolling Through the Park One Day." He and Dora proceed to shuffle off into the sunset as the cartoon concludes with the familiar iris-out. From time to time throughout the cartoon, the Boys lapse into various renditions of their alma mater, sung to the tune of George Cooper and Henry Tuckers "Sweet Genevieve": "Pimento U, Oh sweet P.U., your fragrant odor scents the air" etc. The entire cartoon is filled with puns on the Rover Boys series: The occurrences of the names Pimento, Cheddar, and Roquefort reflect the Rover Boys old school of Colby Hall; Tom, Dick and Larry borrow their names from Tom, Sam and Dick Rover (as well as the generic names Tom, Dick and Harry), Dora Standpipe is named after Tom Rovers fiancée Dora Stanhope and Dan Backslide is named after Rover Boys villain Dan Baxter.
The Dover Boys
1942