Eleven-year-old Jake Chambers experiences visions involving a Man in Black who seeks to destroy a Tower and bring ruin to the Universe, and a Gunslinger who opposes him. Jakes mother, stepfather, and psychiatrists dismiss these as dreams resulting from the trauma of his father’s death the previous year. At his apartment home in New York City, a group of workers from an alleged psychiatric facility offer to rehabilitate Jake; recognizing them from his visions as monsters wearing human skin, he flees. Jake tracks down an abandoned house from one of his visions, discovers a high-tech portal, and travels to a post-apocalyptic world called Mid-World. In Mid-World, Jake encounters the last Gunslinger, Roland Deschain who emerged in his visions. Roland is pursuing Walter Padick, the Man in Black, who had also appeared in Jake’s dreams, across a desert, seeking to kill him in revenge for the murder of his father, Steven, and all remaining gunslingers. He explains that Walter, over the decades, has been abducting psychic children, and is attempting to use their "shine" to bring down the Dark Tower, a fabled structure located at the center of the Universe; this will allow beings from the darkness outside to invade and destroy reality. Roland takes Jake to a village to have his visions interpreted by a seer. Learning of Jakes escape and journey to Mid-World, Walter investigates and discovers from his minion Sayre that Jake has "pure Shine", i.e. enough psychic potential to destroy the Tower single-handedly. While Jakes mother and stepfather failed to search for Jake, they meet Walter as they discover that he is from one of Jakes drawings. He kills Jakes stepfather, then interrogates his mother about his visions and kills her too. In Mid-World, the seer, Arra, determines that the machine is six months away on foot and portal access is restricted to Walters bases. Jake realizes that Walter has a base in New York that they can use to reach the machine. Walters minions, the Taheen, attack the village, but Roland individually kills each of them. Roland and Jake return to Earth where Jake gets Rolands injuries treated at a hospital and learns the location of Walters base from a homeless man that had earlier helped him. When Jake returns home to check in on his mother and stepfather, he finds her charred remains and his stepfather lying dead and breaks down in tears. Roland vows to kill Walter "for both of us" and comforts Jake by teaching him the Gunslingers Creed, which he hasnt uttered since his own father’s death, as well as the basics of gun fighting. As Roland re-arms himself at a gun store, he is attacked by Walter, who captures Jake and takes him through a portal at his base to a machine that will use Jake to destroy the Tower. Jake uses his psychic powers to alert Roland to the portal code he needs, and Roland battles his way through Walters henchmen and reopens the portal which Jake forces to stay open. Walter is forced to return to New York to fight Roland and wounds him. After Jake reminds him of the Gunslinger’s Creed, Roland recovers and kills Walter with a trick shot after a brief fight. Roland destroys the machine, saving the Tower, Jake, and the other children. Afterwards, Roland says that he must return to his own world and offers Jake a place by his side as his companion. Jake accepts the offer as he has nowhere else to go, and the two depart for Mid-World.
The Dark Tower (2017 film)
2017