Spike is busy building the doghouse of his dreams when Jerry suddenly runs out, being chased by Tom. Tom steals one of Spikes doghouse boards to attack Jerry with until Jerry perches on Spikes head and Tom ends up hitting Spike and smashing his house. Tom tries to flee, but Spike stops him by his tail, threatening to kill him if he wrecks his doghouse again. Spike throws Tom into a power pole, where the mailbox falls onto the cat. Tom sneaks under the mailbox to safety and before narrowly missing Jerry as the mouse walks past him. The two dig under Spikes house, but Tom unknowingly carries Spike on his back until Spike knocks Tom out with a hammer. However, Tom falls backwards out of control and dumps Spike on top of his house before escaping. Spike then begins painting his house red, but Jerry sends Tom sliding on rollerskates, knocking Spikes house out of position. Spike, unbeknownst to him, begins painting Tom red until spotting him. Tom picks up Spikes axe in defense and threatens the dream house. Tom mocks Spike by squeezing his nose, but the axe blade then falls off the handle. Tom quickly knocks Spike out with the handle and flees as an unconscious Spike falls onto his dream house, destroying it. Tom hides, but quickly spots Jerry. Tom activates a roller to mow Jerry down with as Spike completes his doghouse and begins sleeping. Spike holds out his hand to stop Tom, but Tom still mows right over him, making Spike an arrow shape. Tom chases Jerry into his mousehole and lights a firework, which Jerry promptly throws into Spikes doghouse. Tom tries to stop Spike from looking inside, but Spike pushes him away and looks inside anyway as the firework explodes in his face. Tom chases Jerry up a power pole and chops it with an axe, causing the power pole to fall onto Spike as he is repairing his house. Spike frantically moves to the front yard, but the pole still crushes his home. An annoyed Spike rebuilds his home in a tree, but Tom follows Jerry up the tree and chops it down with an axe as Jerry climbs to the top. Spike resignedly leans back as the tree falls down, taking him with it. Spike and Jerry finally peacefully sleep in Spikes dreamhouse, but Tom spots Jerry from through a hole in the fence and lassoes him around his waist. Jerry wakes up as hes being pulled off the house and pulls the rope back, launching Tom into the fence. Tom pulls back as Jerry ties the rope onto Spikes doghouse. Spike gets pulled all the way into the fence, destroying his doghouse once again. Tom, not knowing the change, keeps pulling, slamming Spike against the fence before using the nearby fire hydrant as a pulley. Tom tosses Spike into the air and tries to flee, but Spike has finally had enough and catches Tom though the hole by his tail and begin to pull him back repeatedly just as Tom had done to him. Spike and Jerry then work as partners to finish Spikes dreamhouse, with Tom being ordered to act as a slave, having to get whipped by the dog as he is forced to build Spikes dreamhouse, doing every single task at once.
The Dog House (film)
1952