Five days after the assault on the Abnegation faction by Erudite leader Jeanine (Kate Winslet) and her mind-controlled Dauntless soldiers, Jeanine has declared martial law and that the Divergents and those allied with them are the enemy. Among the Abnegation wreckage, Dauntless leader Eric (Jai Courtney) recovers a five-sided box: each side has a faction symbol. Jeanine presumes it contains data from the citys founders and the means to end the Divergence problem. As only a Divergent is capable of opening the box, she orders the capture of all Divergents. 17 year old Tris (Shailene Woodley), Tobias Eaton (Theo James) (also known as Four), Peter (Miles Teller), and Caleb (Ansel Elgort) hide within the Amity compound. Soon after, Eric and his fleet arrive to test all the occupants for Divergence. Peter gives up the groups location as Tris, Four, and Caleb escape and board a train headed into Factionless territory. Four reveals to the Factionless that his real name is Tobias Eaton, whom they have been searching for. Four, Tris, and Caleb are given amnesty at the Factionless hideout where Tris and Caleb discover that the Factionless leader is Fours mother, Evelyn (Naomi Watts), who Four is still resentful towards for leaving him with his abusive father, Marcus. She suggests that Dauntless and Factionless should ally against Erudite, but Four declines. The next morning, the three leave Factionless for Candor to meet up with the remaining Dauntless; during the trek, Caleb tells his sister Tris that he cannot continue with them and goes in a different direction. Upon arrival, Tris and Four are arrested and brought before Candor leader Jack Kang (Daniel Dae Kim), who intends to deliver them to Jeanine. However, Four pleads for Jack to conduct a trial in Candor with the use of truth serum. During the trial, Four communicates his motives and is absolved. Tris tearfully admits her guilt in killing Will, which angers Christina, who loved him. Candor is attacked by the Dauntless who have sided with Eric, and many people are shot with pellets of new simulation serum. Tris is captured by Eric who learns she has a Divergence reading of 100%, making her the perfect subject to open the box. Four arrives to save Tris with the Factionless allies and shoots Eric in the head for the murder of hundreds of people. Back at Erudite, Jeanine, frustrated that none of the Divergent subjects have survived the simulation trials required to open the box, is approached by Peter, who pledges his loyalty to Erudite, and suggests the best way to get Tris to surrender is by exploiting her humanity. Back at the Factionless base, Four reluctantly agrees with Evelyn that war is inevitable and that they need to prepare. Jeanine activates the pellets, causing Christina, Marlene and Hector to repeatedly chant that Tris must turn herself in or more death will follow, as they step closer and closer to the edge of a tall structure. Tris and Tori then climb the sides of the roof and rescue Christina and Hector. However, Marlene plunges to her death. Overcome by guilt, Tris decides to turn herself in to the Erudites. Arriving at the Erudite headquarters, Tris agrees to undergo the trials provided that the suicides cease. Tris overcomes four of the trials, however, when her vitals drop, Jeanine reluctantly halts the simulation to let her rest. Tris then discovers that they have captured Four. She fails the final trial and her vital signs cease. Her body is wheeled over to Fours cell so the latter can mourn, but when shes un-paralysed, Peter assists Four in overpowering the guards, revealing that he had faked her death by injecting her with a sleep serum. Tris is determined to open the box and unveil its message; she and Four head to the simulation room, while Peter returns to the control room to grant them security access. Overcoming the final trial, Tris successfully opens the box. A woman explains that the walled city and faction system is actually an experiment they devised, that the Divergents are actually the success of the experiment, and that the world is waiting outside for them to return to humanity. Realizing she has lost all her power, Jeanine orders that the box be buried and that Four and Tris be executed. However, the Factionless army breaks into the simulation room to rescue Tris and Four. Jeanine and Caleb are arrested. The message is broadcast to the entire city. Tris is hailed as a hero by the masses, eager to explore the world beyond the wall. As Jeanine looks out from her cell, she states that there is no telling what awaits them beyond the wall. Evelyn tells her that she will never find out and kills her.
The Divergent Series: Insurgent
2015