On the fictional Pacific island of Talua in French Polynesia, some 500 miles from Tahiti, Father Doonan has been relieved of his duties by Father Perreau. Father Doonan has fallen out of favor with the islands residents. This is partly because he is an alcoholic, and also because he stumbled on the islands carefully hidden secret: Hansens Disease (leprosy) among the children of the islands. He built a hospital for the children by the islands volcano. Doonan regularly goes from door to door on the island, trying to persuade the islanders to donate money or goods to the leper colony. However, the inhabitants have grown tired of Doonans demands for donations and view him as an irritation. Meanwhile, three convicts – Harry, Charlie, and Marcel – en route for Tahiti, make an unexpected stop on the island, and they are put to work at the leper hospital. All is seemingly normal until the islands volcano begins to erupt and the governor orders an evacuation. The governor cannot reach the freighter that has just left and plans to evacuate the island with one seaplane and a schooner. The children are still on the slope of the volcano in the hospital and Father Doonan is desperate to rescue them. When the freighter suddenly appears back at the island, Father Doonan convinces the governor to drop some men to rescue the children. The schooner will wait until 4:00 pm the next day for them before it has to leave because of the tides. In the hope of getting their sentences commuted, the convicts agree to parachute to the hospital with Father Doonan to rescue the children and staff. They face fire, lava, and earthquakes as time runs out. Eventually most of the children and the staff are rescued and board the schooner. Prisoner Marcel drowns in a mud pit. Charlie is fatally injured when the bridge he is holding up collapses after everyone else gets safely across. Father Doonan decides to stay with him. Harry sees the children and staff to the schooner and goes back to wait with his friends. He is trapped on one side of the chasm while Father Doonan and Charlie are on the other. Father Doonan gives Charlie the last rites when he dies and begins to ask for forgiveness for his sins as the entire island explodes (à la Krakatoa).
The Devil at 4 O'Clock
1961