An author of highbrow literary novels, Thad Beaumont (Timothy Hutton), is better known for the bestselling murder mystery suspense-thrillers he writes under the pen name "George Stark". Beaumont wishes to retire the Stark name and symbolically buries Stark in a mock grave. However, Stark has mysteriously become a physical entity (also portrayed by Hutton) and begins terrorizing Beaumonts family and friends after he emerges from the grave. Stark then kills local photographer Homer Gamache and steals his truck. He also murders Thads editor, agent, and his agents ex-wife, and kills a man named Fred Clawson, who was trying to blackmail Thad for "being a con artist that should not have written books under a false name". When the police suspect Thad of murdering Gamache, he tries to convince Sheriff Alan Pangborn of Castle Rock, Maine he had nothing to do with it. After putting an all-points bulletin on Clawson, who was accused of the death of Gamache, the New York police find him castrated and his throat slit. They find a message on the wall, written in Clawsons blood, "The sparrows are flying again." Thad starts to think that he may have a psychic connection to the killer. While in his office, Thad begins to receive messages from Stark, and begins to worry about the next victim. He and his family start to receive threatening phone calls from Stark. Pangborn initially suspects the phone calls are a prank by Thad himself until Stark begins to describe how he is going to kill Thads family, disturbing Pangborn. State Police find Homer Gamaches truck with Thads fingerprints all over it. For some reason, Stark wants to live after he appeared in a set of Thads best selling books. Thad writes, but he is not alone in suspecting something strange: Sheriff Pangborn is equally suspicious and continues investigating. Thad begins to realize that Stark is, in fact, his parasitic twin brother who died at "childbirth." His mother never told Thad about the twin, and he was completely unaware until a local doctor tells him that Stark was a fraternal twin that was living inside Thads brain. (A scene in the films start shows a developing fetus inside Beaumonts brain). Stark arrives, kills the doctor, and blames Thad for the crime. Thads colleague Reggie realizes that Stark is an entity controlled by the books that Thad wrote and that Stark will do anything he can to stop Thad. Stark kidnaps Thads wife Liz and his children, and makes a deal with Thad: Finishing a book that depicts Stark living in the real world, or he will kill his family. While writing the book, Thad notices Stark is healing himself with his writings. Thad and Stark get into a fight, which ends with Thad stabbing Stark in the neck with a pencil. Thinking that it is over, Stark decides to kill Thads children instead. Sheriff Pangborn arrives and unties Liz, who says that Thad and Stark are upstairs. However, a huge flock of sparrows inexplicably comes and tears Stark apart, and take him "back to hell where he belongs". The sparrows are agents of Satan, that come to collect evil souls that were not allowed to live. Thad and Liz are spared, and they, along with Pangborn, watch as the sparrows disappear into the night.
The Dark Half (film)
1993