Looking for a fresh start after the accidental death of their infant daughter Catherine, architect Dana Barrow (Kate Beckinsale) moves with her husband David (Mel Raido) and 5-year-old son Lucas from Brooklyn to the Blacker estate in rural North Carolina, a once-grand dream home that has sat abandoned and run-down since the death of its original owners in the 19th century. Upon her arrival, Dana begins having unsettling visions and nightmares of a mysterious German Shepherd and of Lucas covered in blood. While exploring the grounds outside, Dana finds what appears to be a homemade gravestone engraved with the drawing of a kite, when she sees a light turn on in the houses attic, seemingly of its own accord. Heading upstairs, Dana finds an area of the house not listed in the blueprints, a room whose entrance is blocked off by a large armoire. With David, she manages to push the cabinet out of the way, only to find a locked door. Dana finds the key hidden atop the door frame, and enters the room alone the next day, only for the door to suddenly close and lock of its own accord. Dana experiences a vision of a young girl being tormented by her father and his German Shepherd, and subsequently suffers a nervous breakdown. Dana eventually makes it out of the room, but is deeply shaken by her experience. She begins to research the history of the house, learning about its namesake Judge Ernest Blacker (Gerald McRaney) and his daughter Laura, who died on the same day as Catherine; July 5th. Dana consults the local historian Judith, who tells her the Blacker family had a secret "disappointments room" in the attic, where wealthy socialite families cruelly shuttered their deformed or disabled children. As she spends more time researching the house and its history, Danas mental state begins to unravel, and she stops taking her medication. She begins having increasingly vivid and disturbing visions of Laura, Judge Blacker, and the dog, and begins acting erratically toward David and Lucas. She finds a portrait of Judge Blacker and Mrs. Blacker hidden behind a pair of facing mirrors, and burns it. While David entertains family friends, Dana hires local handyman Ben Philips (Lucas Till), who has been performing maintenance on the houses leaking roof, to dig up the grave in the backyard. The ghost of Judge Blacker suddenly manifests and kills Ben with a shovel. Dana discovers Bens body hanging from a noose above the open grave, inside of which sits Lauras deformed skeleton. Dana sees another light appear in the attic, and when she goes inside, finds the portrait she burned intact and in their place. Entering the disappointments room, she witnesses a flashback of Judge Blacker murdering Laura with a hammer as his wife futilely tries to stop him. Blackers dog attacks Dana as he moves toward Lucas bedroom. Dana breaks the dogs neck and picks up the hammer, running to Lucas room and stopping Blacker from killing her son by repeatedly bashing him in the head with it. David rushes in, seeing Dana frantically hitting an empty bed. He tries to get her to calm down, telling her that theres no one there. Calming down, Dana reflects on Catherines death, revealing that she accidentally smothered her, triggering her slow spiral into insanity. David vows that they will return to Brooklyn, and that Dana will get better. Before leaving, David removes the door from the disappointments room, and Dana takes one of Lauras figurines. As they drive away, Dana spots Judge Blacker looking down at them from the window.
The Disappointments Room
2016