Julia Deep is a young woman working behind the exchange desk at a department store. She usually serves as the clerk of wealthy and eccentric widows, such as Mrs. Lowe. She feels very lonely in the big city, until she notices books in the apartment of the star lodger in the building she lives in. The lodger, Terry Hartridge is the son of a wealthy man who is using his fathers fortune to blaze a trail across the white lights of the city. He is spending his money carelessly and doesnt put any time in paying the bills, much to the dislike of the department store owner Timothy Black. These bills are delivered by the nobly Lottie Driscoll of the Robin Stock Company. After a while, Terrys money spending takes its toll. He finds out he is broke and turns home depressed, trying to shoot himself. Meanwhile, Julia secretly went into his apartment to read books when he was out. She hides at first, but reveals herself when she catches him trying to kill himself. She tries to stop him and offers to be his business manager to help him spending money the right way. He takes her advice and with the help of Black, he lands into a low paying job at the department store. He neglects his job to flirt with Julia. Black discharges her, saying Terry has a career future and cant afford to go out with a shop girl. Julia and Terry dont stop seeing each other at their building. Terry proposes, but Julia declines, explaining it would ruin his career. Soon, Terry is promoted to a foreman on a ship. Mrs. Lowe is angry to find out her favorite clerk has been fired and visits her. She offers her to be her personal secretary at her home, but Julia doesnt want to leave Terry and refuses the job offer. Later that day, Lottie sees Terry and Julia at the park and becomes jealous. After Terry has left, she starts to play an act she cant live without Terry and pretends she is trying to kill herself. Julia believes her and promises to give up her relationship with Terry, if Lottie does not kill herself. Julia goes to live with Mrs. Lowe to serve as her secretary. Terry is swept away with her disappearance and visits her at Mrs. Lowes mansion. She explains her reason of leaving him. Terry sees through Lotties act and takes her to the theater, where Lottie is performing the same act on stage she performed at the park. She realizes what happened and reunites with him. They decide to elope, but are stopped by Mrs. Lowe and Black. They fight over who has the fault and are noticed by the local sheriff. He is fed up with their kibbering and decides to arrest the four of them. They are locked into a room, where they eventually apologize. Julia and Terry escape, but the sheriffs help notices and runs after them. Meanwhile, it is revealed Mrs. Lowe and Black were once lovers. They reunite and escape as well to get married. In the ending, the sheriff realizes they dont belong in jail. After Mrs. Lowe and Black get a marriage license, they promise to give Julia and Terry a fancy wedding.
The Eyes of Julia Deep
1918