Kuzco is the selfish, egotistical emperor of the Inca kingdom, who routinely punishes those that "throw off his groove". When he fires his conniving adviser Yzma, she, along with her dim-witted henchman, Kronk, plots to take the throne. Kuzco meets with Pacha, a kind peasant and village leader, and tells him that he plans to demolish his hilltop family home to build himself a lavish summer home called "Kuzcotopia". Pacha protests, but is dismissed. Yzma and Kronk make a plan to get rid of Kuzco by tricking him into drinking poison at dinner, but end up giving him the wrong potion that instead transforms him into a llama. After knocking Kuzco unconscious, Yzma orders Kronk to dispose of him, but Kronk has a stroke of conscience and saves him, but unfortunately misplaces the bag on a cart belonging to Pacha. Pacha returns home, but does not tell his family about Kuzcos decision. After awakening from the bag on the cart, scaring Pacha, Kuzco blames Pacha for his transformation and orders Pacha to return him to the capital. Pacha offers, but only if Kuzco would change his mind about Kuzcotopia. Kuzco refuses the offer and sets off on his own, but quickly ends up in trouble with the local wildlife. Pacha arrives to rescue him, and extends his offer. Kuzco accepts Pachas help, though secretly plans to go back on his word once he is safe. The two survive many ordeals in the jungle, and Pacha finds Kuzco has a good side to him underneath his ego. Meanwhile, Yzma has taken the throne, but learns that Kronk failed to kill Kuzco. The two set out to hunt him down. The two pairs arrive at a jungle diner at the same time, unaware of the others presence. Kuzco argues with the cook, while Pacha overhears Yzmas plan, and attempts to warn Kuzco when he returns, but he doesnt believe Pacha, knowing he is loved by his kingdom. However, Kuzco soon overhears more of Yzmas and Kronks scheming, and realizes no one in his kingdom misses him, and leaves the diner on his own, planning on living out the rest of his life as a normal llama. Pacha catches up, still willing to help Kuzco return to normal after knowing his life is in danger. Kuzco apologizes for his selfishness before they set off back towards Pachas house to get supplies. When they arrive, Yzma is already there. Pacha has his family delay Yzma, giving him and Kuzco a head start back to the capital. They find Yzmas secret lab and numerous transformation potions including one to return one to human, but Yzma and Kronk arrive shortly thereafter. Yzma orders Kronk to kill the pair, but he refuses to, and she insults him and his cooking and drops him through a trap door, and orders her guards to capture them. Pacha grabs a handful of vials and he and Kuzco flee, trying the various vials during their flight to find the one. As they are cornered on the ledges of a giant wall structure, they find they are down to two vials. Yzma chases them, knocking away the vials. During a scuffle for the vials Yzma falls onto one of the vials and transforms into a helpless kitten. Pacha and Kuzco use teamwork to reach the other vial before Yzma, and though she grabs it first, she is knocked off the wall by a wall panel suddenly opened by Kronk, who found his way out of the trap door. Kuzco recovers the vial and drinks it. Later, Pacha is getting ready to return to his village, but Kuzco, back to normal, takes Pachas suggestion of moving Kuzcotopia over to a neighbouring, unoccupied hill. Some time later, Kuzco joins Pacha and his family at his modest resort. Elsewhere, Kronk has become a scoutleader, and trains a new batch of scouts, including the reluctant Yzma, who still remains a kitten.
The Emperor's New Groove
2000