Charles Morse (Anthony Hopkins), a billionaire, Robert "Bob" Green (Alec Baldwin), a photographer, and Stephen (Harold Perrineau), Bobs assistant, arrive in a remote Alaskan village with Charles wife, Mickey (Elle Macpherson), a model. Styles (L.Q. Jones), the proprietor of the lodge, warns everyone about not leaving uncovered food that will attract bears. Charles is surprised with a birthday party where Mickey gives him an engraved pocket watch and Bob gives a hunting knife. During a photo shoot, Charles observes Bob and Mickey kissing platonically. The three men fly to a location to find a local Alaskan man (Gordon Tootoosis), for photographs. A note on his door indicates he is miles away bear hunting. They fly north where the man is supposed to be hunting. During the flight, Charles asks Bob how he is planning to kill him. Before Bob can answer, the plane strikes a flock of birds and nose-dives into a lake, killing the pilot. Charles, Bob, and Stephen barely reach shore. The three men attempt to hike to a more likely search area, only to find a vicious male Kodiak bear stalking them. While crossing a makeshift bridge, Charles falls into the rapids. Bob saves him, leaving Charles doubting his earlier suspicions about Bobs intentions. The group becomes lost. That night, the bear attacks, killing Stephen and chasing the other two away. The two men see a rescue helicopter in the distance. They attempt to flag it down, but the pilot does not see them, leaving them reduced to finding their own way out. The bear finds Charles and Bob again. Charles decides that they must bait the bear and kill it in order to survive. The bear begins attacking Bob but Charles distracts the bear, luring it away. Charles wedges his spear between rocks allowing the bear to use its own weight to fatally wound itself after rearing up. Following the river south, the men find an empty cabin. Charles notices a deadfall, while Bob rushes into the cabin. They find supplies, including a canoe, rifle, and ammunition. While Bob is checking if the canoe was usable, Charles finds a receipt in his pocket to use as tinder. The receipt contains information confirming his suspicions about his wifes infidelities with Bob. When Bob returns to the cabin, he reveals that he plans to kill Charles for his wife. He orders Charles outside the cabin. Charles manages to lure Bob into a position causing him to fall into a deadfall. Bob is badly injured and begs Charles for his help. Charles removes Bob from the pit and tends to his wounds. They go downriver in the canoe together. Charles makes camp with a fire to keep Bob warm. Bob apologizes for betraying Charles and says Mickey was unaware he intended to murder him. A helicopter appears and Charles successfully attracts its attention, but Bob dies before he can board. Charles is brought back to the lodge and reveals to his wife that he is aware of her betrayal by handing her Bobs watch. He states to the press that the other men died, "saving my life."
The Edge (1997 film)
1997