Growing up in a poor working-class family, Laura (Constance Bennett) works hard to support her family. Lauras father, Ben (J. Farrell MacDonald) encourages his other daughter Peg (Anita Page) to marry a hard-working man named Nick (Clark Gable). Laura rejects a marriage proposal from the boy-next-door to become involved with William Brockton (Adolphe Menjou) a wealthy man many years her senior whom she met at a modeling job. She allows him to shower her with expensive gifts and moves into his luxury apartment. Her newly found wealth does not come without any backlash, though. Her mother Agnes (Clara Blandick), notices a difference in Laura and that she is working more nights. Dressing in wealthy attire, and arriving in a chauffeur driven car, she pays a visit to Peg, (now married to Nick). Nick noticing her style, demands that she leaves his house immediately, as he wants no association with a kept women. Even though Laura realizes that she has become estranged from her family, she continues to stay with Brockton. Sometime later, while vacationing in Colorado, she meets and falls in love with young newsman Jack Madison (Robert Montgomery). After a brief affair, and pledging their fidelity to one another, Jack is stationed in Argentina for a several months, as Laura promises him that she will leave Brockton. She breaks the news to Brockton, returns all of his gifts, leaves his apartment, and takes a job at Macys department store. Laura, finds work at Macys but is so financially strapped, she cant pay her rent. She unsuccessfully asks one of her former colleagues Elfie St. Clair (Marjorie Rambeau) for a loan. Laura cant return to her room unless her rent is paid. She takes "The Easiest Way", and calls Brockton, asking for a loan. Brockton refuses and tells her he will only cooperate if she comes back to him on condition that she inform Jack of her decision. She promises Brockton that she will, but deceives him by not telling Jack. Jack returns to New York, phones Laura immediately and Laura invites him to her swank apartment. Meanwhile, Elfie pops in on Laura to ask for money. Desperate, Laura listens to Elfie, who advises her to leave Brockton and marry Jack, but under no circumstances tell Jack of her current set up. Laura agrees. But her plans to elope with Jack are cut short when Brockton unexpectedly shows up. Brockton, noticing Lauras packed bags, informs Jack of what happened during his absence. Laura tries to explain the situation, but Jack, furious that Laura had broken her promise of fidelity to him, leaves. Despite Brocktons offer to continue to care for her, Laura, leaves heart broken. Traveling to her sisters home, her brother-in-law (Nick) invites her in. Nick, seeing that Laura had returned to her beginnings, comforts her with the promise that Madison will return when he gets "cool under the collar."
The Easiest Way
1931