In World War II, newly promoted Capt. John Madison Hoskins (Sterling Hayden) returns home after two years at sea to spend a seven-hour leave with his wife Sue (Alexis Smith) and their children, before taking command of the ship USS Hornet (CV-8) but the ship has been sunk. Hoskins is then reassigned as an instructor at Quonset Point, Rhode Island, much closer to home but "... thousands of miles from the only war hell get to fight in." Two years later after teaching some of the US Navys top students, Hoskins is given command of the USS Princeton (CVL-23) but its present commander, Capt. William Buracker (Hayden Rorke) is retained for the Philippine campaign, During the attack, the ship is crippled and Buracker orders her sunk. Hoskins, severely wounded, his foot is amputated to save his life. Later, at a naval hospital in Philadelphia, Hoskins meets "Zuggy" (Ben Cooper), another amputee who lost an arm and is being honorably discharged. His disability makes Hoskins eligible for retirement and promotion to rear admiral but he pushes himself to be ready to take over the new USS Princeton being built in the nearby Navy shipyard. With encouragement from Sue, Vice-Adm. Thomas L. Semple (Dean Jagger) reveals that by a navy code, no disabled officer can be compelled to retire. After long periods of walks and climbing the new ship, Hoskins falls from the scaffolding. Although injured, he comes into his review meeting without crutches, convincing the tribunal that he is fit to serve. The next day, at the launching of the USS Princeton (CV-37), Hoskins is assigned as its commander. After the war, Hoskins advocates for the use of jet aircraft off aircraft carriers and when he is transferred to San Diego, he is able to demonstrate the capabilities of jets to land on carrier ships. Despite one jet crashing due to mechanical failure, the US Navy is convinced of the viability of jet operations. Assigned to the carrier division for aircraft operation at sea, Hoskins joins Adm. Arthur Dewey Struble (Morris Ankrum) of the 7th Fleet. Flying the lead aircraft, Hoskins demonstrates that jets can be used safely on aircraft carriers, in time to be effective in Korea. After celebrating a wedding anniversary with Sue, Hoskins is offered the choice of two important jobs that would further his career, but take him away from active duty. Discouraged by the prospect, when he witnesses the return of wounded men by the Air Transport Service from the Korean front, Hoskins is inspired to show the injured men that they can still lead an active life and turns down both jobs, asking instead to be put in charge of the Pacific Division of the Air Transport Service.
The Eternal Sea
1955