Clark Kellogg (Matthew Broderick) leaves his mother (Pamela Payton-Wright) and environmental activist stepfather Dwight (Kenneth Welsh) in Vermont to go to New York University (NYU) to study film. After arriving at Grand Central Terminal, he is approached by Victor Ray (Bruno Kirby), who at first offers to carry Clarks bags, then offers a ride. As soon as Clark steps out of the car, Victor drives off with Clarks luggage still in the trunk. Clark tells his instructor at NYU, Professor Fleeber (Paul Benedict), who uses books he has written as required study, about losing his belongings. Clark notices Victor walking by and gives chase. Victor vows to give his luggage back in return for a favor. Clark is introduced to Victors uncle, Carmine Sabatini (Marlon Brando). In a running gag, Clark mentions how much Carmine looks, sounds and acts like The Godfather—though no one will tell Carmine this to his face. Victor explains that Brandos character in The Godfather, Vito Corleone, was based on Carmine. Carmine offers Clark the opportunity to make a lot of money just for running small errands. The first is to pick up a Komodo dragon from JFK Airport and transport it to a specific address. Clark enlists the help of his roommate Steve Bushak (Frank Whaley) to pick up the animal and deliver it to Larry London (Maximilian Schell) and his assistant, Edward (BD Wong). Clark is also introduced to Carmines daughter, Tina (Penelope Ann Miller), who takes an immediate shine to him. Tina talks as if the two are soon to be married. A distracted Clark tries to pay attention in Fleebers film class (where the professor shows clips of The Godfather Part II) but he is soon being chased by two agents of the Department of Justice. Upon being caught, Clark is told that Carmine—also known as "Jimmy The Toucan"—is not only a Mafia figure, he runs the Fabulous Gourmet Club. It is an illicit and nomadic establishment, never holding its festivities in the same place twice, where for enormous prices endangered animals are served as the main course, specially prepared by Larry London. Clark is told that "for the privilege of eating the very last of a species", a million dollars is charged. Clark finds out that his activist stepfather listened in on a conversation with his mother. Right after Clark mentioned the Komodo dragon, Dwight contacted the Department of Justice. Carmine admits that the Gourmet Club exists, but tells Clark that the two DOJ agents are being bribed by a rival crime family that wants both Carmine and Clark dead. While driving to the Gourmet Club, a plan is hatched to get Carmine out of the exotic animal business for good and to clear Clark. At the Gourmet Clubs dinner, longtime Miss America pageant host Bert Parks sings a version of "There She Is" when the Komodo dragon is revealed. Clark steps outside to signal the DOJ agents, who raid the club. Carmine is upset that Clark has ratted him out. Carmine pulls a gun, the two wrestle and a shot fells Carmine. The two DOJ agents, who do indeed turn out to be corrupt, leave with a duffel bag filled with money, though they are soon caught by real FBI agents and arrested. Clark berates his stepfather, who leaves. Carmine then gets up off the floor, having faked his death. Larry London reveals tonights expensive and exotic dinner is actually Hawaiian tigerfish mixed with smoked turkey from Virginia, not endangered species (a long-running con of Carmines, swindling the rich out of their money). Clark was hand-picked by Carmine, working with the FBI, because they knew Clarks stepfather would contact the corrupt agents once he found out about Clarks "job". Tinas aggressive interest in Clark was an act as well, but she and Clark now share a mutual attraction. Carmine and Clark take the Komodo dragon for a walk, Carmine promising it will be taken safely to a new habitat at the zoo. He offers to help Clark make it in Hollywood, having a few connections there. Clark says, "Thanks, but no thanks."
The Freshman (1990 film)
1990