On the docks outside Los Angeles, a truck is loaded with electronics and a dockside worker notifies an anonymous person about the shipment. On the road, the truck is approached by three modified Honda Civics with green underglow. The perpetrators then proceed to harpoon & board the truck, knock out the driver, and corral the semi allowing them to heist the electronics and escape into the night. The next day, undercover LAPD officer Brian OConner is assigned to find the gang responsible for the crimes. While visiting Torettos Market, he flirts with the shops owner Mia Torreto, the sister of notorious street racer Dominic Toretto. Dominics henchmen, which consists of Vince, Leon, Jesse, and his girlfriend Letty, arrive. Vince, who has a crush on Mia, starts a fight with Brian, which Dominic is forced to break up. Later that night during a street racing gathering, Brian arrives in his modified Mitsubishi Eclipse, and Dominic arrives in his Mazda RX-7. Dominic organizes a drag race with himself, Brian, and two other drivers. Brian, out of cash, wagers the pink slip for his car. During the race, Brian overheats his engine, handing the victory to Dominic, who mocks Brian in front of the crowd. But as Brian prepares to give Dominic the keys to his car, the LAPD arrives, forcing everyone to flee. Dominic parks his car in a garage to limit suspicions by walking home, but is immediately spotted by a police cruiser. Brian arrives and saves him from the cops. The duo unknowingly venture into the territory of Dominics old racing rival, gang leader Johnny Tran and his cousin, Lance Nguyen. After confronting Brian and Dominic, Tran and Lance blow up Brians car. Afterwards, Dominic tells Brian that he owes Dominic a "ten-second car" (a car capable of driving a quarter mile in under eleven seconds, from a standstill). Brian goes to Dominics garage, where he brings a totaled Toyota Supra as a replacement for the Eclipse. As Dominic and his crew begin the process of repairing the car, Brian begins dating Mia, much to Vinces dismay. Brian investigates Tran, convinced that Tran is responsible for the truck hijackings. One night during an investigation of a garage seemingly connected to Tran, he is cornered by Vince and Dominic, who demand an explanation. Brian lies about checking the cars of his rivals for the upcoming Race Wars, a street racing event in the desert. Brian, Vince, and Dominic then check out Trans garage, and while there, Brian notices a large shipment of electronics in the garage. Brian reports the batch of electronics to his superiors at the LAPD and FBI, and they arrest Tran and Lance. The raid turns out to be a bust, however, as it turns out the electronics had been bought legally, thus leading to the duo’s release. Despite his own doubts, Brian is now forced to assume that Dominic is the actual coordinator of the truck heists. Brians superiors then give him just 36 hours to find the perpetrators, as the truckers are now arming themselves to defend themselves against hijackings. The next day, with the Supra repaired, Dominic invites Brian to Race Wars, and he tells them that they will talk after Brian has proven his worth. At the Race Wars, Jesse wages his fathers Volkswagen Jetta to Tran, but flees with the car after he loses. Tran confronts Dominic to claim the car, and then mocks him, accusing him of reporting him to the police. This leads to Dominic beating up Tran. Later that night, Brian notices the crew leaving, and realizes that Dominic is indeed the hijacker that hes been assigned to find. He then reveals his true identity to Mia, who is infuriated with him, but Brian soon convinces her to reveal the location of the Civics and aid him in his plans. Meanwhile, Dominic, Letty, Vince, and Leon prepare to hijack a semi-trailer truck, which is also to be their last heist. However, this time, the truck driver is armed, Vince is trapped on the side of the truck and is shot by the truck driver, while Lettys car is knocked over and flips from the highway (later saved by Leon). Brian soon arrives with Mia, who commandeers the Supra while Brian rescues Vince. When Dominic arrives, Brian is forced to blow his cover and call for a medical evacuation to rescue Vince. Dominic leaves with Mia and the rest of the crew after Vince is saved. Brian arrives at Dominics house in L.A. just in time to see him pull his fathers 1970 Dodge Charger R/T out of the garage. Brian confronts Dominic regarding Jesses whereabouts, saying that hell get the cops to find him before Tran does. At the same time, Jesse arrives, apologizing for his actions, and pleads for protection against Tran and Lance. He is then killed in a drive-by shooting by Tran and Lance on dirt bikes. Dominic and Brian pursue them, with Dominic ramming Lances bike off the road before he can shoot Brian. Brian then shoots Tran, who crashes into a curb, killing him. As Brian checks on Tran, he sees Dominic, and orders passersby to call the police. Brian proceeds to follow Dominic, culminating in a quarter-mile drag race. The race ends as they barely manage to cross a railroad crossing before a train passes by, but Dominic violently crashes into a semi-truck. Instead of arresting Dominic, Brian gives him the keys to his own car, telling him he still owes him a ten-second car; Dominic is then able to escape the police. Brian then walks away from the scene, now a fugitive from the law. In the post-credits scene, Dominic is seen driving through Baja California, Mexico, in a 1970 Chevrolet Chevelle SS.
The Fast and the Furious (2001 film)
2003