Peter Sandza (Kirk Douglas), a former CIA agent, searches for his son Robin (Andrew Stevens), who is kidnapped by PSI, a secret intelligence organization inside the CIA run by ruthless Ben Childress (John Cassavetes), Peters former friend. This organization kidnaps psychics to use their power as weapons in the service of the United States government. The achievement of the psychics management and control is by the elimination of their families. Childress gains the trust of Peter and subjects Robin to this treatment. Robin incorrectly believes his father killed by Muslim terrorists. Robin is taken away by Childress on the pretext of providing protection from the terrorists and to later manipulate him. Childress organization then systematically experiments to increase Robins powers, and to control father and son. Robins mental instability increases. A teenage girl, Gillian Bellaver (Amy Irving), discovers her own psychic powers, including telekinesis and extra-sensory perception. The uncontrolled manifestations of these powers cause harm to people that physically touch or provoke her. She volunteers to attend the Paragon Institute, as had Robin, and the director is Dr. James McKeever (Charles Durning), a colleague of Ben Childress. Her development at the institute uncovers her psychic link with Robin, and a psychic prowess that is comparable to his. She is to be kidnapped and her family eliminated. Peter finds out about Gillian through his girlfriend Hester (Carrie Snodgress), who works at the clinic. He manages to warn her through Hester and to break her out, in the process of which Hester accidentally dies. Together they track Robin to Chicago, where Childress ruthless experiments make him insane. Robin delights in torturing and killing his teacher in revenge for her seduction of him and using her sexuality to experiment and manipulate him. Robin intends to torture Peter because he suspects Peters involvement in the experiments. Childress enables Robin to follow through in order to eliminate them. There is a confrontation between the two in an upstairs bedroom of a mansion. Their deaths happen when both are thrown out of the bedroom window and fall to the ground. Robin lingers a bit before finally dying and seems to make some form of psychic contact with Gillian; he transfers his powers to her with the implied message to save herself from Childress and avenge his death. The next morning, Childress approaches Gillian to accept his "help". She understands his long-term intentions, embraces her psychic abilities and avenges the deaths of Robin and Peter by exploding Childress internally.
The Fury (1978 film)
1978