Six-year-old Moonee lives with her young mother Halley in the Magic Castle, a motel in Kissimmee, Florida near Walt Disney World. She spends most of her summer days unsupervised with her motel-resident friends Scooty and Dicky, engaging in mischief, mooching from tourists, stealing, and other misbehavior. After the three children are caught spitting on a guests car, Dickys father restricts him from playing with Moonee and Scooty. While cleaning up the guests car they had spat on, Moonee meets Jancey, a child living at the Futureland motel next door, and invites her to hang out with them. Later on, Dickys family relocates to New Orleans, which saddens the group. Bobby, the manager of Magic Castle, is protective of the children. Halley, struggling to pay rent, hawks perfume to tourists in hotel parking lots and asks Scootys mother, Ashley, to steal food for them from the diner where she works. However, Ashley cuts contact after discovering Moonee, Scooty, and Jancey set an abandoned condominium on fire. Halley begins offering her services online as a prostitute, closing Moonee in the bathroom when she has a client. Bobby notices the activity and applies restrictions on unregistered guests in her motel room. When she steals a clients Disney resort passes to sell them, the man returns to demand them back; Bobby sees him off but warns Halley that he will evict her if the prostitution continues. Desperate, Halley approaches Ashley to apologize and ask for money. When Ashley mocks her for her prostitution, Halley beats her in front of Scooty. The next day, Florida Department of Children and Families (DCF) arrive to investigate Halley. She cleans up the room and gives away her cannabis, but remains defiant. She takes Moonee to a resort hotel restaurant, where they charge the meal to a guests room. When they return to the motel, DCF and the police are waiting to take Moonee into foster care pending investigation. Moonee runs away to find Jancey, and together they run away to the Magic Kingdom Park at Walt Disney World.
The Florida Project
2017