Donna Peyton (Donna Butterworth) is a ten-year-old girl who inherits a $30,000,000 fortune from her millionaire industrialist father. Per terms of his will, Donna must choose one of her six uncles (all played by Jerry Lewis) to become her new "father". Lewis also plays Willard Woodward, the family chauffeur who takes Donna to all of her uncles to stay with them for two weeks. Donnas uncles are: James Peyton, a ferryboat captain, her fathers oldest brother who served in the U.S. Navy during World War II. Everett Peyton, a famous circus clown who hates kids and has moved to Switzerland to avoid U. S. taxes. Julius Peyton, a professional photographer who photographs female models. Captain Edward "Eddie" Peyton, a pilot based in Los Angeles, California who owns his own airline ("Eddies Airways, the Airline for the Birds") consisting of one plane, a Ford Trimotor. Skylock Peyton, a Holmesian detective who loves tea and lived in England until he lost his passport and moved back to the United States. He is accompanied by his faithful companion, Dr. Matson (Sebastian Cabot) but Skylock pays more attention to a pool game in Robert Strausss pool parlour than to Donna. Bugsy Peyton, a gangster who everyone believed killed by the mob. Only interested in Donnas inheritance, he kidnaps her. Willard rescues her by tricking the gangsters into believing they are surrounded by armed soldiers. The more time she spends with her uncles, the more Donna realizes that Willard should be her father: he was always a father to her even when her real father was still alive, because her father was too busy to spend time with her. Unfortunately the family lawyers will not allow her to choose Willard, insisting that she must choose one of her uncles. At the last minute, Uncle Everett shows up unexpectedly, asking Donna to choose him. To everyones surprise, Donna agrees, and the two leave together. As they walk down the hallway, Donna reveals that she knows the truth: "Uncle Everett" is actually Willard in disguise. She recognized him because, as always, his shoes were on the wrong feet.
The Family Jewels (film)
1965