Katie Holstrom (Loretta Young), a Swedish-American, leaves the family farm to go to nursing school in Capitol City. Barn painter Adolph Petree (Rhys Williams), who had completed a job for Katies father, offers her a ride, but robs her of her money. Katie, refusing to ask her family for help, goes to work as a maid in the home of political power broker Agatha Morley (Ethel Barrymore) and her son, U.S. Representative Glenn Morley (Joseph Cotten). Soon, she impresses Agatha and her loyal majordomo Joseph Clancey (Charles Bickford) with her refreshing, down-to-earth common sense and Glenn with her other charms. Unexpected problems arise when the Morleys and the other leaders of their political party select a replacement for a deceased congressman; they pick the unscrupulous Anders J. Finley (Art Baker). Knowing of the man, Katie strongly disapproves of their choice. She attends a public meeting arranged to introduce Finley and begins asking pointed, embarrassing questions. The leaders of the opposition party are impressed and offer her their backing in the coming election. When she accepts, Katie reluctantly has to quit her job, much to Glenns annoyance. When Katies campaign picks up support (with the help of some coaching from Glenn), Finley resorts to smearing her reputation. He pays Petree to claim Katie spent the night with him when he gave her a ride. As a result, Katie becomes so distraught, she runs home. Glenn learns of the chicanery, follows her and proposes to her. After hearing the news of her sons engagement, Agatha, with her butlers help, gets Finley drunk and tricks him not only into revealing that he is against the formation of the European Union and that he bribed Petree, but also that he has him safely hidden away at his isolated lodge. With the help of Katies three big, strong brothers (James Arness, Lex Barker, Keith Andes), Glenn takes Petree away from the goons Finley assigned to watch him, and makes him confess over the radio. Agatha withdraws her partys support from Finley and endorses Katie, ensuring her election. In the final scene, Glenn carries Katie across the threshold of the United States House of Representatives.
The Farmer's Daughter (1947 film)
1947