Nearing the end of the 18th century, Napoleons vast army is sailing towards the Irish coast. The national poet and freedom fighter who goes by the name of "The OFlynn" is traveling back to the castle where he was born, when he encounters a coach being robbed by rogues. The leader of the outlaws is a man named Hendrigg. The robbery fails thanks to OFlynns efforts. He invites the passenger, Lady Benedetta, to take refuge in his castle. Lady Benedetta eventually agrees to take up the invitation from the elegant OFlynn, who rode ahead to prepare the castle. When OFlynn arrives at the castle, Dooley is waiting to arrest him for unpaid debts. OFlynn gets off by telling the man of a treasure buried inside the castle. OFlynn is unaware that Lady Benedetta is really the daughter of the Viceroy of Ireland. She is in turn unaware that agents have been sent out by Napoleon to spy on her, disguised as travelers. They have been informed that Lady Benedetta has Napoleons plans to invade Britain and is to deliver them to her father. Both Lady Benedetta and the agents arrive to the castle in the night. Dooley fends off the agents and saves both Lady Benedetta and the unsuspecting OFlynn. Napoleons men attack them on their way to Dublin, but again they escape. They manage to give the plans to Lady Benedettas father. Because of his leadership qualities, OFlynn is made a captain in the Irish Army. OFlynn is attracted to Lady Benedetta, and when he finds out that her fiancé, Lord Sedgemouth, is in favor of Napoleon, he challenges his rival to a duel. Being a swordsman, he wins the duel quite easily, and decides to win Lady Benedettas heart. The lord counters by letting Lady Benedetta believe that OFlynn is involved with a courtesan named Fancy Free, which leads the lady to denounce him. In battle, OFlynn disguises himself as a deserter to get behind enemy lines. He is brought in front of Napoleons general, Van Dronk, and they spend the night drinking together. When the general passes out, OFlynn puts on his uniform and tries to steal the new plans for invading Britain. Unfortunately, one of the generals lieutenants recognizes him as an impostor and he is swiftly court-marshaled and sentenced to death. Luck is on his side when the firing squad misses, and he escapes unharmed. He hides in Lord Sedgemouths tent, where the courtesan Fancy Free is also present. OFlynn persuades Fancy to help him get the invading plans, but before they can, Lord Sedgemouth walks in on them and tries to shoot OFlynn, who again manages to escape. Lady Benedetta learns that Fancy is with lord Sedgemouth and goes to see OFlynn. They kiss and OFlynn goes on to claim that Lord Sedgemouth is a traitor who must be treated as such. He manages to make the French ships near the coast to turn back by signaling to them from ashore. Then he takes on Lord Sedgemouth at his castle and manage to defeat him with the help of the viceroys men. After this, he kisses Lady Benedetta.
The Fighting O'Flynn
1949