While travelling by train with his sidekick and assistant, "Goldie" Locke (Edward Brophy), for a vacation in San Francisco, Tom Lawrence (Tom Conway), a.k.a. The Falcon, meets Annie Marshall (Sharyn Moffett), a lonely little girl. Annie tells them that she is being held prisoner by her nurse, Miss Carla Keyes (Hermine Sterler), and butler Loomis (Jason Robards Sr.). Annies story is cut short when Miss Keyes comes for her. Shortly after, the little girl rushes back to Tom to tell him her nurse is dead. Tom and Goldie take charge of Annie but police are notified that the little girl was kidnapped. When the train arrives in San Francisco, the police are waiting for the Falcon. Released on $10,000 bail, posted by Doreen Temple (Fay Helm), who promises Tom she will disclose the motive behind her generosity. At dinner that evening, Doreen brings along her bodyguard Rickey (Carl Kent), posing as a police officer. When they leave, Rickey knocks Tom out and takes him to Doreens apartment where she interrogates him about the murder, and to stay away from gangster Peter Vantine (John Mylong) and the cargo ship, the S.S. Citadel. After Tom returns to his hotel to collect Goldie, they decide to pay a visit to Annies house, where they meet her older sister Joan (Rita Corday) who denies that she knows Doreen or Vantine. Annie claims she made up the story about being held captive, but when Tom sneaks back to the house to talk to her, she says Loomis is holding her prisoner. She takes them to Carlas room where they find a photograph of a ships officer (Johnny Strong), signed to his wife, Carla. Loomis hears someone rummaging around in the nurses room, but is shot dead by an unknown assailant. Returning to their hotel, Tom is confronted by Vantine, who is brandishing a gun. When Tom disarms him, he learns Doreen was the romantic interest of an ex-bootlegger, Duke Monette (Robert Armstrong), involved with a shipment aboard the S.S. Citadel. Tom visits the Star Coastal lines where DeForrest, the companys general manager, is meeting with Joan, the owner of the company. A clerk at the office alerts Tom to go to an address, which turns out to be Doreens apartment, where she is waiting with her gang. Vantine, also lured into her trap, arrives and begins to fight with Doreens thugs. Tom and Joan manage an escape but on his return to his hotel room, discovers DeForrest hiding in a closet. Goldie finds a newspaper article that shows who the real owner of the steamship S.S. Citadel is: Duke Monette. That night Tom and Goldie sneak aboard the ship and find raw silk hidden among the bales of hemp cargo. Returning to the Marshall house, the little girl tells Tom that Joan has left to meet her "secret lover" on Telegraph Hill. Tom observes the rendezvous with Joan and DeForrest, who Tom thinks is really Duke Monette, confessing that he used a secret identity to protect his daughters, Joan and Annie. Fearing Doreen plans to hijack the illicit silk cargo that night, Duke asks for the detectives help. At dockside, Duke and Tom watch Vantine, Doreen and the other gang members board the S.S. Citadel. Duke suddenly knocks the ships engineer unconscious, and blows up the unattended boiler room, then pulls a gun on Doreen and Tom. Tom tells Doreen that Duke killed Miss Keyes and Loomis, the employees she hired to watch over the girls. When Tom warns that Duke plans to blow up the ship, Doreen and Rickey lunge forward to disarm Duke, who shoots them both, but Rickey shoots Duke, allowing Tom to flee before the ship explodes.
The Falcon in San Francisco
1945