Struggling composer Richard Wilder (Michael Dennison) becomes an RAF pilot in the Second World War. His aeroplane is shot down over the Italian Dolomite mountains, but he is found unconscious in the snow by Alida (Valentina Cortese). She nurses him back to health. She tells him a local legend about two lovers - one a ghost who leads her faithless partner to his doom over a precipice on the Glass Mountain. When the war ends, Richard returns to England and his loving wife Anne (Dulcie Gray). He begins composing an opera based on the legend of Dolemite, the Glass Mountain, which has begun to haunt him. On his wifes birthday, he sees a photograph of Alida on the cover of a magazine. Inside, a caption states that Alida Morisini has come to London to receive an honour. He tries to get in touch with her, but she has already left the country. From then on, he becomes more and more miserable. Anne eventually guesses he is in love with someone else; he confesses he loves Alida. Richard returns to Italy - alone - and to Alida. The Teatro La Fenice is looking for an opera for their festival, and Tito Gobbi has told them about Richards (unfinished) one. Meanwhile, Gino, a local man in love with Alida, asks Richard to leave. When he refuses, they fight, but nothing is settled. Richard tries to break up with Alida, but she persuades him not to. Richards opera is chosen for the festival, so he sends for his lyricist, Bruce McLeod. Bruce tries to convince Alida it is best if she and Richard part. Anne persuades her friend Charles to fly her to the premiere of Richards La Montagna di Cristallo (The Glass Mountain) in Venice. When they pass near the real Glass Mountain, she asks Charles to show it to her. He obliges, but they crash on the mountain. The opera tells the tragic tale of Antonio and Maria. Antonio promises his beloved Maria that someday they will climb the Glass Mountain together. However, he goes away to the plain and does not return. Finally, Maria climbs the mountain alone and is never seen again. At Antonios wedding to another woman, he hears Marias voice and goes to the mountain to be reunited with her. He climbs and then falls to his death. Richard conducts his own work and receives a standing ovation at its conclusion. Afterward, Richard is told by Alida about Anne. He must now choose between his muse and his wife, as the mythical and modern levels of the legend coincide. Alida sees that he has chosen Anne and bids him goodbye. Richard races to the mountain and insists on going out to meet the rescue party. Gino guides him. The doctor tells him that Anne is badly injured, but should recover.
The Glass Mountain (film)
1949