The opening cards explain that ancient druids worshiped trees, sometimes offering them human sacrifices. Some of these trees were connected with evil. At the Sheridan home, Molly and Allan Sheridan head off on a trip, leaving their two children in the care of their nanny, Diana Julian. Once alone and with the children sleeping, Diana kidnaps the daughter. Molly realizes she has left her glasses at the house, and upon returning she sees that her daughter is missing. Diana, out in the forest, approaches a giant, old gnarled tree, and holds up the baby, which then disappears from her hands. The roots of the tree show the babys face, as it has been sacrificed to keep the tree alive. As Diana sits on the ground near a pool of water, her reflection disappears, leaving that of a growling wolf. Three months later, Phil and Kate Sterling move to Los Angeles, where Phil has gotten a job with an advertising agency. Kate reveals to Phil that she is pregnant; she gives birth to a baby boy, Jake. They decide to hire a nanny so that both parents can continue to work. They interview a number of candidates recommended by the Guardian Angel agency. Two seem most suitable: a young woman named Arlene Russell, and a caring British woman named Camilla Grandier. After Arlene dies in a bicycling accident, Camilla is hired and quickly becomes an invaluable member of the household. However, one night, Phil has a nightmare where he sees a wolf attacking Jake. Later in the day, Camilla and Jake are outside in a field when she is confronted by three gang members, who chase her and Jake into the woods. After knocking her to the ground, one of the men stabs her and attempts to rape her at the base of the old tree. The tree comes alive and uses its branches to eviscerate the three men, consuming one of them. Camilla sits on a branch above the ground, cradling the baby, while wolves devour one of the men. A giant spike impales the last man, before he is engulfed in flames. Kate and Phil throw a dinner party, attended by Ned, their neighbor and the architect of the house, and Phils bosses from work. During dinner, the conversation turns to Camilla and her value to the household. Later in the evening, Ned, who has taken a liking to Camilla, invites her to his house; she politely declines. Phil dreams of having sex with Kate, who suddenly turns into Camilla. The following night, Kate helps Camilla get dressed up for some window shopping in town. After she leaves, Ned arrives with a bouquet of flowers for Camilla. Kate encourages him to go after Camilla; Ned hops into his truck and catches sight of Camilla heading into the forest. Ned follows on foot, and eventually finds her bathing in the creek. Suddenly she vanishes, reappearing on the giant tree. As she lies naked on a branch, she begins to fuse with the tree bark. Ned is discovered by the pack of wolves, and flees back to his house. While trying to call the police, his phone cuts out. After locking all the doors, he calls Phil and Kate, and leaves a rambling message about what he saw in the forest. The wolves break into the house; Ned runs into the living room and sees Camilla, naked and ashen, on the hearth, warning him that he should not have followed her. The wolves rush in and kill him. Camilla drags Neds body away, and all traces of his death mysteriously vanish. Phil wakes up in the night and sees the answering machine beeping. The first message is from a stranger, Molly Sheridan. After leaving her phone number, she says that it is urgent she and Phil speak. The next message is from Ned. As Phil listens to Neds message, Camilla enters and tells Phil he needs to look at Jake, who appears ill. The following day, Phil goes to the Sheridan house, meeting Molly and her son Scotty. Molly describes the disappearance of her baby daughter. Their former nanny, Diana, disappeared at around the same time. The police have been unable to find any evidence that Diana even exists. She begs Phil to arrange for her to see Camilla, suspecting she is really Diana. Returning home, Phil searches the house for Camilla. Finding no one, he listens again to the message Ned left, warning Phil and Kate not to let Camilla back into their house. Phil rushes over to Neds house, and finds the door wide open, but no one inside. Phil arrives home where Camilla is with Kate and the baby, and confronts her, telling her to leave his house, during which the baby becomes violently ill; they take him to the hospital, where he displays coma-like symptoms. At the hospital, Jake awakens, and Phil rushes off to find the doctor. Camilla suddenly appears in the hospital room. She tries to leave with the baby, when Phil blocks her path. He grabs Jake and knocks Camilla to the ground. The Sterlings leave the hospital and head home, to find a wolf standing guard inside. As they slam the door on it, more wolves surround them. Kate runs to their Jeep, and Phil flees into the woods with Jake, where he is chased by Camilla, who levitates through the air. Kate drives into the forest, where she finds Phil being confronted by Camilla; she hits Camilla with the Jeep, killing her. As Phil examines Camillas body, he sees faces of babies embossed in the tree bark. After a detective tells them that he could find no evidence Camilla ever existed, Kate and Phil decide to leave the house. Phil enters the woods with a chainsaw to cut down the tree; meanwhile, Kate is attacked by Camilla at the house, who appears as part-tree and part-human. When Phil attempts to cut the tree, he is entangled in its branches, which bleed when he saws through them. As Phil attacks the tree, patches of skin start to fall off of Camilla. Camilla drags Kate down the stairs and throws her into the living room. As Camilla approaches Jake, Phil chops off a large branch from the tree, causing Camillas entire leg to sever from her body. Kate then pushes Camilla out the window. As she falls towards the ground, the tree begins to fall and explodes before landing; Camilla then disintegrates before touching the ground. Phil arrives back at the house, and finds Kate holding Jake.
The Guardian (1990 film)
1990