In the near future, humanity has been ravaged by a mysterious fungal disease (a mutation of Ophiocordyceps unilateralis). The afflicted are robbed of all free will and turned into fast, mindless flesh-eaters, referred to as hungries. Humankinds only hope is a small group of hybrid, second generation children who crave living flesh but retain the ability to think and learn. The children are imprisoned, and go to "school" at an army base in the Home Counties, where they are experimented on by Dr. Caroline Caldwell. Helen Justineau is responsible for educating and studying the children. Among the children is an exceptional girl named Melanie. The base is overrun and the lab is breached. Melanie escapes the lab but outside the hungries are everywhere and soldiers are being swarmed and violently attacked in a failing, chaotic mass breach. Melanie wanders stunned by what she sees, but then violently attacks and infects two soldiers who are trying to restrain Helen. Helen and Melanie jump aboard an escaping armoured van. The soldiers want to shoot Melanie, but Helen shields her and Caldwell insists she needs her. Melanie is muzzled and handcuffed to the gunners chair atop the armoured vehicle and the group escapes into the wilderness. The van breaks down, the group proceed to London on foot. Caldwell reveals to Melanie that "second generation" hungries were discovered after newborns killed their infected mothers by burrowing out of the womb. When they try to leave the next day, they realize the hospital has been surrounded by a greater horde of hungries, and Melanie offers to lead the hungries away. She captures a small dog to use as bait to distract and lure the hungries away from the hospital so the group can escape. As they progress through London they come across a mass of decomposing, infected bodies encircling the completely overgrown BT Tower and sprouting seed pods. Caldwell explains to the group that the pods contain spores that if released could end humankind. She reasons that she can save Helen and the human race for Melanie by making a vaccine. Melanie asks why her kind should die to save humanity if Caldwell admits that the children are in fact alive and not just imitators. Melanie runs back to the centre of London where she sets the towering seed-pod structure alight, causing it to germinate en masse and release an immense cloud of airborne spores. Not to soon after, Sgt. Parks finds Melanie by the BT Tower, fully ablaze and already seemingly infected by the spores. He cries out that this is the end of the world, whereas Melanie simply states its just "not yours anymore". He asks her to put him out his misery as he does not want to end up a hungry. He hands her his sidearm, and she tearfully obliges as he is about to turn. Melanie then returns to the lab to find Helen, standing just inside the hermetically sealed door, fearfully watching the spores fall around the lab. The film closes with a tearful Helen awakening, secure from infection in the airlock, but effectively a prisoner inside the mobile med lab. Outside, sitting on the ground are the second generation children of the school/prison at the army base, along with the feral children all waiting and collected together, kept sternly in place by Melanie. Helen begins speaking through a microphone on outside speakers, once again to educate and teach all the children. It closes with Melanie asking for her favorite, a story, to which Helen politely declines and says not until bedtime. Melanie then responds that therell be lots of time.
The Girl with All the Gifts (film)
2017