Crooked political boss Paul Madvig is determined to back reform candidate, Ralph Henry, for governor after falling in love with Ralphs daughter, Janet. Pauls right-hand man, Ed Beaumont, believes the move is a big mistake and rightly distrusts Janets motives. She is only playing along at Ralphs request; she is put off by Pauls crudity and becomes very attracted to the more eclectic Ed. He fends off her advances out of strong loyalty to Paul. The deluded Paul boasts that Henry has practically given him the key to his house; Ed warns him that it is liable to be a glass key, one that can break at any moment. When Paul tells gangster Nick Varna that he is cleaning up the city and that he will no longer receive protection from the police, Ed grows even more concerned. Complicating matters further, Ralphs neer-do-well son, Taylor, owes Varna for gambling debts, while Pauls young sister, Opal, is in love with Taylor. When Paul finds out, Opal fears what he will do to Taylor. Ed later finds Taylors lifeless body in the street. Paul is the prime suspect, much to Nicks delight. When Nick hears that Ed and Paul have split over the Henry mess, he tries to recruit Ed. Ed turns him down, so Nick has him brutally beaten repeatedly by sadistic henchman, Jeff, to torture him into revealing details of corruption to the editor of the newspaper Nick controls. Ed contrives an escape and is hospitalized. When Ed recovers, he learns that Nick has found a "witness" to Taylor Henrys killing, Henry Sloss. Paul has Henry brought to his office, but he is gunned down before he can talk. As a result, Paul is indicted for the murder and held in jail. Ed finds a somewhat drunk Jeff in a bar and tries to pump him for information in a back room. As they drink, Ed toasts, "Heres looking at you." Just as Jeff starts to talk, Nick shows up and brusquely orders him to shut up. When Ed disarms Nick, a fed-up Jeff strangles his boss. After Jeff is finished, Ed gets the waiter to call the police to arrest Jeff. Having finally guessed who killed Taylor, Ed persuades District Attorney Farr to arrest Janet. As Ed had hoped, Ralph confesses he struggled with Taylor, causing him to fall and strike his head. Afterwards, Paul overhears Janet tell Ed that she loves him and that she knows he loves her. Seeing that it is true, Paul gives the couple his blessing, but takes back his expensive engagement ring.
The Glass Key (1942 film)
1942