CIA Agent Max Reed witnesses the murder of Dr. Tetsu Segawa, a researcher for the mysterious Chronos Corporation. Dr. Segawa had stolen an alien device known as “the Guyver” from Chronos, but he hid it among a pile of garbage by the Los Angeles River before his death. Lisker, leader of the thugs that murdered Dr. Segawa, returns the metal briefcase to Chronos president Fulton Balcus, only to discover that it contains an old toaster. At a dojo, Reed notifies Dr. Segawas daughter, Mizki, about the incident, while her boyfriend, Sean Barker, struggles to pay attention in class. Sean follows Reed and Mizki to the crime scene; there, he stumbles upon the Guyver unit stored inside a lunch box and stuffs it in his backpack. On his way home, his scooter breaks down in the middle of a back alley before a gang corners him. While Sean is being attacked by the gang, the Guyver suddenly activates and fuses with him. Sean, in his newly armored form, dispatches the gang members, but is shocked by his physical appearance before the armor quickly disappears into two scars on the back of his neck. The next night, Sean goes to Mizkis apartment, and discovers his sensei murdered and Mizki abducted by Liskers thugs. With the help of Reed, Sean rescues Mizki before the trio are chased by Liskers gang of Zoanoids. They are trapped in an abandoned warehouse, where Liskers thugs hold Mizki captive, and Sean once again transforms into the Guyver to battle them. Sean defeats the Zoanoids before squaring off against Lisker. During the battle, Sean executes a headbutt, which temporarily malfunctions the armors Control Metal. He kills Liskers girlfriend, Weber, but mistakenly knocks Mizki unconscious before the Zoanoids gang up on him, and Lisker rips the Control Metal off his forehead, disintegrating the armor and seemingly killing Sean. Mizki wakes up at the Chronos headquarters, where Balcus shows her a gallery of Zoanoids before questioning her on how Sean was able to activate the Guyver. Dr. East, the head of genetics research, discovers that the Control Metal is regenerating itself into a new Guyver unit. After seeing Reed being experimented on, Mizki assaults Balcus and takes the Control Metal, threatening to throw it into the disposal chamber. In the middle of the battle, the Control Metal is flung off her hand, and accidentally swallowed by Dr. East, before it bursts through the Zoanoids body, and once again becomes the Guyver who says he has been rejected by death. Sean and Mizki free Reed from the experimental chamber before Sean once again battles Lisker and kills him. Before the trio proceed to escape, Reed suddenly mutates into a Zoanoid, and dies due to his system rejecting the new form. Balcus reveals his true form as the Zoalord and corners Sean, but the Guyvers defensive system activates the Mega Smasher cannons on his chest and obliterates Balcus and the laboratory. Sean deactivates the Guyver armor before he and Mizki leave Chronos headquarters as Reeds former partner Col. Castle and the Zoanoid thug Striker look on.
The Guyver
1990