A young, reckless cowboy named Eddie (Richard Jaeckel) deliberately provokes an argument with the notorious gunfighter Jimmy Ringo (Gregory Peck), who is widely known as the fastest draw in the West, making him the perpetual target of every young gunslinger eager to become famous as "the man who shot Ringo." When Eddie draws his weapon, Ringo has no choice but to kill him. Eddies three brothers pursue Ringo as he leaves town, seeking revenge, but Ringo ambushes and disarms them, then drives off their horses, telling them to walk back to town; instead, they follow him on foot. In the nearby town of Cayenne, as Ringo settles into a corner of the largely deserted saloon, barkeeper (Karl Malden) alerts Marshal Mark Strett (Millard Mitchell). Strett is an old friend of Ringos but nevertheless urges Ringo to leave, since his presence has already created a sensation and it is only a matter of time until trouble occurs. Ringo agrees to go as soon as he sees his wife, Peggy (Helen Westcott), whom he has not seen in eight years, and the son he has never met. Street tells him Peggy has changed her surname to conceal their relationship and has no interest in seeing him. Ringo must deal with Hunt Bromley (Skip Homeier), another young gunslinger keen to make a name for himself, and Jerry Marlowe (Cliff Clark, uncredited), who mistakenly believes Ringo killed his son. A bar girl, Molly (Jean Parker)—another old friend—eventually persuades Peggy to talk to Ringo. Peggy hears Ringo say he is now older and wiser, and wants to leave his gunfighting past behind. He intends to settle in California, where people do not know him, and he wants Peggy to come with him. She refuses but agrees to reconsider in a years time, if he has kept his word and abandoned his past for good. Ringo meets his son at last, although he does not reveal that he is the boys father. Ringos business in Cayenne is finished but he has lingered too long. The three vengeful brothers have arrived and lie in wait. Strett and his deputies intercept and apprehend them. Ringo bids farewell to Peggy and his son, but as he departs the saloon, Bromley shoots him in the back, mortally wounding him. As Ringo lies dying, he tells Strett that he wants it known that he drew on Bromley—that Bromley shot him in self-defense. Bromley protests that he doesnt want Ringos help but Ringo explains to his killer that he is doing him no favors. Bromley, he says, will soon know how it feels to have every hotshot two-bit gunfighter out to kill him. He will learn, as Ringo did, that notoriety as a gunfighter is a curse that will follow him wherever he goes, making him an outcast and a target for the rest of his life. Strett orders Bromley out of his town, punctuating his order with a beating, which he warns is "just the beginning" of what Bromley has coming. In death, Ringo has finally found what he sought for so long: his wifes forgiveness and reconciliation. At his funeral, as Peggy proudly reveals to the townspeople for the first time that she is Mrs. Ringo, a silhouetted, unrecognizable cowboy rides off into the sunset.
The Gunfighter
1950