In 1979, Michael Corleone approaches 60, racked with guilt over his ruthless rise to power; especially so having ordered Fredos assassination. He donates part of his tremendous wealth in charitable acts. Michael and Kay are divorced; their children, Anthony and Mary, live with Kay. At the reception following a papal order ceremony in St. Patricks Old Cathedral in Michaels honor, Anthony tells his father that he is leaving law school to become an opera singer. Kay supports his decision, but Michael wants Anthony to either complete his law degree or join the "family business". Michael and Kay have an uneasy reunion when Kay reveals that she and Anthony know the truth about Fredos death. Vincent arrives at the reception. He is embroiled in a feud with Joey Zasa. When Connie arranges for Vincent to meet Zasa, who calls Vincent a bastard, Vincent bites Zasas ear. Michael is both troubled by Vincents fiery temper and impressed by his loyalty. He agrees to include him as his lieutenant in the business. Knowing that Archbishop Gilday, head of the Vatican Bank, has accumulated a massive deficit, Michael offers the Bank $600 million in exchange for shares in Internazionale Immobiliare, an international real estate company, which would make him its largest single shareholder with six seats on the companys 13-member board. He makes a tender offer to buy the Vaticans 25% share in the company, which will give him controlling interest. Immobiliares board quickly approve the offer, pending ratification by the Pope. Don Altobello, an elderly New York Mafia boss and Connies godfather, tells Michael that his partners on the Commission want in on the Immobiliare deal. Michael wants the deal untainted by Mafia involvement and pays off the mob bosses from the sale of his Las Vegas holdings. Zasa receives nothing and, declaring Michael his enemy, storms out. Altobello follows Zasa, saying he will reason with him. Minutes later, a helicopter hovers outside the conference room and opens fire. Most of the bosses are killed, but Michael, Vincent, and Michaels bodyguard, Al Neri, escape. Neri tells Michael that the surviving mob bosses made deals with Zasa. Michael thinks Zasa isnt smart enough to mastermind the massacre, and realizes that Altobello is the traitor, suffers a diabetic stroke, and is hospitalized. As Michael recuperates, Vincent and Mary begin a romantic relationship, while Neri and Connie give Vincent permission to retaliate against Zasa. During a street festival hosted by Zasas Italian American civil rights group, Vincent kills Zasa. Michael berates Vincent for his actions and insists that Vincent end his relationship with Mary, explaining Vincents involvement in the familys criminal enterprises endangers her life. The family goes to Sicily for Anthonys operatic debut in Palermo at the Teatro Massimo and stay with Don Tommasino. Michael tells Vincent to pretend to defect from the Corleone family in order to spy on Altobello. Altobello introduces Vincent to Don Licio Lucchesi, a powerful Italian political figure and Immobiliares chairman. Michael discovers that the Immobiliare deal is an elaborate swindle, conspired by Lucchesi, Gilday, and Vatican accountant Frederick Keinszig. Michael visits Cardinal Lamberto, favored to become the next Pope, to discuss the deal. Lamberto persuades Michael to make his first confession in 30 years. Michael tearfully confesses that he ordered Fredos murder, and Lamberto says that Michael deserves to suffer but can be redeemed.  Altobello hires Mosca, a veteran hitman, to assassinate Michael. Mosca and his son, disguised as priests, kill Don Tommasino as he returns to his villa. While Michael and Kay tour Sicily, Michael asks for Kays forgiveness, and they admit they still love each other. Michael receives word of Tommasinos death, and at the funeral vows never to sin again. After the Pope dies, Cardinal Lamberto is elected as Pope John Paul I, and the Immobiliare deal is to be ratified. The plotters against the ratification attempt to cover their tracks. Vincent tells Michael that Altobello is plotting to have Mosca assassinate Michael. Michael sees that his nephew is a changed man and names him the new Don of the Corleone family, telling him to adopt the Corleone name. Vincent ends his romance with Mary. The family sees Anthonys performance in Cavalleria rusticana in Palermo while Vincent exacts his revenge: Keinszig is abducted by Vincents men, who smother and then hang him from a bridge, making his death look like suicide. Don Altobello, at the opera, is given poisoned cannoli by Connie, who watches him die from her opera box. Calò, Tommasinos former bodyguard, meets with Don Lucchesi at his office, claiming to bear a message from Michael. As he whispers the message, Calò stabs Lucchesi in the neck with his own spectacles. The Pope is served poisoned tea by Archbishop Gilday and dies after he approves the Immobiliare deal. Al Neri travels to the Vatican, where he shoots Archbishop Gilday. Armed with a sniper rifle at the opera house during Anthonys performance, Mosca kills three of Vincents men, but is unable to aim at Michael. In attempting to shoot Michael outside the opera house, he kills Mary. Vincent kills Mosca. Michael cradles Mary and screams in agony. Years later, an elderly Michael sits alone in the garden of Don Tommasinos villa and suddenly slumps over in his chair, falling to the ground.
The Godfather Part III
1990