Jack Cole (Steven Seagal) was once a government intelligence operative known as "The Glimmer Man," because he could move so quickly and quietly through the jungle that his victims would only see a glimmer before they died. Having left the Glimmer Man job behind him, Cole—steeped in buddhism and not used to working with others has become a detective with the Los Angeles Police Department. Cole is partnered with Jim Campbell (Keenen Ivory Wayans), a tough, no-nonsense cop who has little patience for Coles New Age philosophies and outsider attitude. Cole and Campbell have to set aside their differences when theyre assigned to track down a serial killer called "The Family Man," for his habit of killing entire households. The Family Mans latest victims turn out to be Coles former wife Ellen and her current husband Andrew Dunleavy—and Coles fingerprints are found on Ellens body. Cole and Campbell think that Coles former bosses in the government may somehow be involved in the killings. Cole contacts his friend Smith (Brian Cox), unaware that he has been working with local crime boss Frank Deverell (Bob Gunton). Cole and Campbell receive a tip that leads them to Christopher Maynard (Stephen Tobolowsky), who admits that he committed the Family Man murders that happened before Cole arrived in Los Angeles. Someone else has been committing the more recent murders and making it look like Maynards work. Cole fatally shoots Maynard in self defense. Cole, hoping to get a lead on the new killer, goes to the home of Deverells Russian translator Celia Roslov (Susan Reno), who was a victim of the killer. Cole finds out that the Roslovs had tickets to Russia paid by Deverells company. The killer attacks Cole, and later sets Campbells home on fire after a discussion between Smith and Deverell to kill Campbell, Cole and Johnny(Johnny Strong), Deverells stepson. Cole and Campbell discover that Deverells stepson Johnny (Johnny Strong) knows some important information. Johnny tells Cole and Campbell that Deverells right-hand man, Donald Cunningham (John M. Jackson), is the new killer who has been making his killings look like Maynards work. Johnny also tells them that Smith has been working with Deverell. Cole and Campbell confront Smith, and torture him into revealing that Deverell is smuggling chemical weapons into the USA from Russia, with plans to sell the weapons to the Serbian mafia. Smith made the contacts, with the deal being cut by the Russian mafia known as the Russian Liberation Fighters. The meeting for the deal is scheduled to take place at a downtown welfare hotel. Cole and Campbell storm the hotel, where Cunningham fatally shoots Deverell, and Cole kills Cunningham by throwing him through a window and onto a wrought iron fence below. Campbell, having been shot, tells Cole that, ever since he met him, hes been nothing but trouble. Cole says hell keep that in mind, as Campbell is taken away in an ambulance.
The Glimmer Man
1996