Terri Venessi (Mary Kate Schellhardt), a local straight-A student and ‘deli girl’, always seems to be at odds with the cheerleading captain, Karen Ridgeway (Hillary Tuck). Terri is the daughter of Grace (Valerie Harper) who is a widow and Karen is the daughter of Millie (Shelley Fabares) who have been known rivals since the day their friendship was strained. One day, their pranks on each other go too far when a revenge-fueled stink bomb in Karen’s locker gets out of hand and the school has to be evacuated for two days as a result. The girls are called to the Principals office where they and their mothers meet with Officer Patricia Smith (Esther Scott). Although she initially plans to have them sent to a work farm, Officer Smith instead tells them that the girls should switch lives for a while to experience the other girls life even upon also noticing that both mothers act the same way toward each other. Under threat of expulsion, the girls and their families agree. Karens family is quite affluent, but both parents work and are gone quite a bit. As a result, Karen, when she was home had to take care of Karens little sister Tiffany (Kelsey Mulrooney), and now Terri is made to do it, despite having no babysitting experience or siblings of her own. Tiffany (who is constantly telling "Knock-knock jokes") gets on Terris nerves at first, but eventually, she comes to think of Terry as a "sister-figure", especially during a thunderstorm, which causes a temporary loss of power. During the switch, Terri learns that Karen never stands up for herself to her mom who grew up in the neighborhood with Terris mom, and is now a social climber. While at Karens, Terri and Karens brother David (Andrew Kavovit) discover they like each other, especially after Karen gives Terri a "makeover." At Terris house, Karen is living with Grace and grandfather Papa Tognetti (Sid Caesar). Terris is a blue-collar family that runs an Italian deli. Karens friends make fun of Terri and now are making fun of Karen, who discovers that her "friends" are very superficial. Her "best friend" Nicole Henderson (Marnette Patterson) starts snubbing her and even tries to steal her boyfriend Chad Elkins (Hunter Garner), which causes problems for the couple. She also discovers that Terris mom is much more "hands on" than her own mother and doesnt like things to change. She also can be very controlling. As time goes on, Karen starts to bond with Papa and even joins in the search when he turns up missing. As a result of the switch, Millie (Karens mom) and Grace (Terris mom) gain perspective and restore their friendship. They apparently had a falling out when they were teens. Grandpa moves to a retirement village (he wasnt missing after all). Terri and Karen discover they like themselves and each other. Millie decides her family is more important than her clubs and Grace quits trying to hide in the past and embrace life again. Everyone benefits from the Mom Swap, especially Terri and David, who go to Prom together, and Karen and Chad, who are voted Prom Queen and King, but not before Nicole gets called out for trying to rig the election. Karen and Terri end up as best friends.
The Great Mom Swap
1995