Searching for the secret of gunpowder, European mercenaries travel to China during the reign of the Renzong Emperor (AD 1010–63). A few miles north of the Great Wall, they are attacked by Khitan bandits, who kill some of the men. Upon escaping, the survivors seek refuge in a cave but are then attacked by a terrifying monster, leaving only William Garin and Pero Tovar alive, with the former having slashed off the monsters hand. The two decide to bring the arm with them. The next day, they stumble upon the Wall and are taken prisoner by soldiers of the elite Nameless Order, led by General Shao and Strategist Wang. The Nameless Order is an elite Chinese military order commissioned by the Imperial Court of the Song Dynasty for the sole purpose of repelling a horde of alien monsters called Tao Tieh. The monsters, one of whom William had slain, attack once every sixty years. The Orders commanders are stunned by the monsters severed hand brought by William, as the Order believed the invasion was still a week away. Suddenly, a large wave of monsters assault the Great Wall, and the Order is mobilized. The Nameless Order is divided into five units: the close-quarters infantry of Bear Troop, the acrobatic, all-female Crane Troop under Commander Lin, the heavy-weapons Tiger Troop, the archery-specialist Eagle Troop, and the cavalrymen of Deer Troop. Both sides sustain heavy losses before the monsters queen aborts the attack. During the battle, William and Tovar are freed by Ballard, a European who, like them, had ventured east twenty-five years ago in search of black powder, been detained, and now serving as an English and Latin teacher. William saves Peng Yong, a warrior in the Bear Troop, from the attacking monsters. William and Tovars battle skills earn the respect of the Nameless Order. Later, William and Tovar meet with Ballard, and together plan to steal black powder and flee while the Order is occupied in battle by the Tao Tieh. During the night, two Tao Tieh reach the top of the Wall and kill several guards. Shao and Lin lead the Deer soldiers against them, but are ambushed. The Tao Tieh are slain but Shao is killed, putting Lin in command of the Nameless Order. Around this time, an envoy from the capital Bianliang arrives with an ancient scroll which suggests that the monsters are pacified by magnets. Wang believes that the stone William carried all this time enabled him to slay the Tao Tieh he fought before entering the Wall. To test the hypothesis, William suggests that they should capture a Tao Tieh alive and agrees to help. This results in his delaying his escape plans, which puts him at odds with Tovar who nevertheless postpones their plans to assist William over Ballards protests. During the next attack, the Tao Tieh are numerous enough to cause Lin to resort to using arrows equipped with black powder, whose capabilities had been kept secret from the Westerners until now. They manage to capture a living Tao Tieh and prove the theory. The monster, however, is claimed and taken to the capital, Bianliang, by the Imperial envoy before it can be further studied. A short while later, a tunnel is discovered at the base of the Wall; the previous attacks had been a distraction, while the Tao Tieh dug a passage through the wall. While Lin investigates, Tovar and Ballard steal a supply of black powder and escape, knocking William unconscious after he tries to stop them. William is arrested by the Chinese, and, though Peng Yong speaks up for him, is locked up in the Wall. Some distance away, Ballard betrays and abandons Tovar, but is captured by the Khitans, who accidentally kill themselves and Ballard after igniting the powder. Tovar is then recaptured by Deer Troop. At the capital, the envoy presents the captive Tao Tieh to the Emperor, but it awakens and signals the Tao Tieh attack. Rushing to protect the capital, Lin orders the use of hot-air balloons to get there as fast as they could. Before setting out, Lin sets William free, with Wang telling him to warn the outside world about the danger to come. However, William chooses to stay and boards the last balloon with Peng and Wang. They arrive just in time to save Lin from being devoured. They land in the Emperors palace, where Wang proposes an idea to kill the queen by tying explosives to the captured Tao Tieh and giving it meat to be delivered to the queen. While transporting, a horde of Tao Tieh breach the sewers. Peng Yong sacrifices himself to save the others. After releasing the Tao Tieh, Lin and William climb a tower for William to detonate the explosives via an arrow. Wang sacrifices himself to buy time for Lin and William to move to the upper floors. Two of Williams arrows are deflected by the Tao Tieh queens bodyguards, but William then throws the magnet into the horde, creating a gap in the shields and allowing Lins spear to get through. The queen is destroyed, and the rest of the horde is frozen solid. With the threat eliminated, William is allowed to return home, and is given a choice, to take with him either the powder or Tovar; he chooses the latter, much to Tovars annoyance.
The Great Wall (film)
2017