Facing foreclosure of their homes in the Goon Docks area of Astoria, Oregon, to an expanding country club, a group of children who call themselves "the Goonies" gather for a final weekend together. The Goonies include optimist Mikey Walsh, his older brother, Brandon, the inventive Data, the talkative Mouth and the overweight klutz Chunk. Rummaging through the Walshes attic, they come across a 1632 doubloon and an old treasure map purporting to lead to the famous pirate "One-Eyed" Willys hoard located nearby, whom Mikey considers to be the original "Goonie". The kids elude Brandon and make their way to a derelict restaurant on the coast that coincides with the map; Brandon soon follows, along with Andy, a cheerleader with a crush on him, and Stef, Andys friend. The group quickly discovers the defunct restaurant is being used as a hideout by the criminal Fratelli family: Francis, Jake, and "Mama." The Goonies find an underground tunnel described on the map and follow it, but Chunk is captured by the family and tied up with their deformed, immensely strong younger brother, Sloth. The Fratellis torture Chunk until he reveals where the Goonies have gone, and begin pursuit. Chunk is left behind with Sloth, but befriends him. Sloth frees them, and Chunk calls the police. They both then follow the Fratellis. The Goonies evade several deadly traps along the tunnels while staying ahead of the Fratellis. Finally, they reach the grotto where Willys pirate ship, the Inferno, is anchored. The kids discover the ship is filled with treasure and start filling their pockets; Mikey warns them not to take any on a set of scales in front of Willy, considering that to be Willys treasure and their tribute to him. As they leave the ship, the Fratellis appear and demand they drop all the treasure before they plan to kill them. Chunk arrives with Sloth and distract the Fratellis long enough for the Goonies to jump overboard. Sloth holds open a cave opening so they can escape the grotto, but has to stay behind. With the children gone, the Fratellis proceed to grab all the treasure they can, including those on Willys scales. This triggers another trap causing the grotto to collapse, and the Fratellis barely make it out in time. On shore, the Goonies see their families and the police arrive, capturing the Fratellis when they get to shore, but Chunk prevents Sloth from being arrested. As the kids eagerly describe their adventure to their parents, Mikey discovers that his marble bag had not been taken by the Fratellis and is filled with gems he took from the ship. Mikeys father rips up the foreclosure papers, declaring they have enough money to buy their homes back. Chunk invites Sloth to live with him. As the Goonies celebrate, they see the Inferno, having broken free of the grotto, sailing off on its own in the distance.
The Goonies
1985