Britt Reid is the playboy son of James Reid, publisher of the Los Angeles Daily Sentinel. They have an estranged relationship until James is found dead from an allergic reaction to a bee sting. After the funeral, Britt fires the staff aside from his maid, but later re-hires Kato, Jamess mechanic and a skilled martial artist. Britt and Kato get drunk together and, upon agreeing that they both hated James, visit the graveyard to cut the head off Jamess memorial statue. After they succeed, they rescue a nearby couple being mugged. When police mistake Britt and Kato themselves for criminals, Kato evades them in a car chase as he and Britt return to the mansion. Britt convinces Kato they should become crime-fighters posing as criminals. Kato develops a car outfitted with several gadgets and weapons, which they call the Black Beauty. Britt plans to capture Benjamin Chudnofsky, a Russian mobster uniting the crime families of Los Angeles under his command, and whom his father was trying to expose. To get Chudnofskys attention, Britt uses the Daily Sentinel as a vehicle to publish articles about a "high-profile criminal" he calls "The Green Hornet." Britt hires Lenore Case as his assistant and researcher, and uses her unwitting advice to raise the Green Hornets profile. Britt and Kato blow up several of Chudnofskys meth labs, leaving calling cards so Chudnofsky can contact them. Throughout all this, the Daily Sentinels managing editor, Mike Axford, fears this single-minded coverage will endanger Britts life, and District Attorney Frank Scanlon frets over public perception that he cannot stop the Green Hornet. Britt asks Lenore out, but she rebuffs him and instead invites Kato to dinner, making Britt jealous. Kato learns from her that mobsters often offer a peace summit to rivals in order to get close enough to kill them; Britt then tells Kato that Chudnofsky has offered them such a meeting. Kato tries dissuading him, but Britt, feeling overshadowed, follows his instincts. This nearly proves fatal when Chudnofsky tries to kill them. Barely escaping to the mansion, Britt and Kato argue and fight, and Britt fires both Kato and Lenore, who he believes are in a relationship. Kato receives an email from Chudnofsky on the Hornets calling-card email address, offering $1 million and half of Los Angeles to the "Hornet" if he kills Britt. Meanwhile, Britt discovers that Scanlon is corrupt, and that he tried to bribe James into downplaying the citys crime level to help his career. Chudnofsky, meanwhile, suffers a midlife crisis and reinvents himself as the supervillain "Bloodnofsky". Scanlon invites Britt to meet in a restaurant, where he reveals he murdered Britts father. Chudnofsky arrives with his men to kill Britt, but Kato saves Britt and they escape. At the Daily Sentinel, Britt intends to upload a recording of Scanlons confession onto the Web - which he belatedly discovers he did not manage to record. Chudnofsky and his men, who followed the duo there, engage them in a firefight, wounding Britt in the shoulder. Kato ultimately stabs Chudnofsky in the eyes with wood in self-defense and Britt guns him down. A SWAT team appears and fires at the Green Hornet and Kato, who use the remains of their nearly demolished Black Beauty to run Scanlon out the 10th-floor window, killing him. The Green Hornet and Kato flee to Lenores house, and she helps them hide from the police. The next morning, Britt promotes Axford to chief editor and stages being shot in the shoulder by Kato, further establishing the Green Hornet as a threat and allowing Britt to get treated by professionals in a hospital. Later, the two weld James stolen head back onto his memorial statue. Now with Lenore to aid them, Britt and Kato vow to continue protecting the law by breaking it.
The Green Hornet (2011 film)
2011