The renowned biochemist and geneticist Roy Curien becomes obsessed with discovering the nature of life and death. While supported by the DBR Corporation and its own team of scientists, Curiens relentless pursuit of this goal slowly drove him insane. His behavior became more erratic and his experiments took a gruesome turn. The Curien Mansion in Europe, which serves as his home and laboratory, experiences an outbreak. Later in 1998, AMS Agent Thomas Rogan receives a distress call from his fiancée Sophie Richards from the Curien Mansion. Rogan and his partner "G" fly to Europe and arrive at the estate, finding it overrun with undead creatures, which Curien unleashed. A mortally wounded man gives them a journal containing information about Curiens creations and their weaknesses. Rogan and "G" reach Sophie, only to witness her being carried away by a gargoyle-like creature called the Hangedman. They later find Sophie being attacked by the Chariot, a supersoldier wearing armor and armed with a Bardiche. After defeating Chariot, the two attend to Sophie, who seemingly succumbs to her injuries. A furious Rogan goes after the Hangedman. Their pursuit leads Rogan and "G" to the rooftops surrounding the courtyard. After a lengthy battle, they managed to shoot it down. The two fight their way to find Dr. Curien. The doctor releases the Hermit, a giant spider crab monster, and flees. They manage to kill it, and continue the chase, fighting Chariot and the Hangedman once more. Upon being confronted a second time, Curien unleashes his masterpiece, The Magician, a humanoid creature with pyrokinetic abilities. However, immediately after being released, the Magician reveals himself to be self-aware, refusing to serve any master and kills his creator. Rogan and "G" confront the Magician in one final battle. Before dying, the Magician gives a chilling warning, and explodes. After they give their last remarks, they walk back the entire trail and upon leaving the mansion, they take a final look at it, wherein the view zooms to the entrance doors, which open to reveal Sophie, who survived her injuries. The three then leave the mansion.
The House of the Dead (arcade game)
2003