Madison Avenue advertising executive Fred Bolton, a Lakeville, Connecticut widower living beyond his means, is beset by two major problems. First, his boss at Tomes Advertising Agency has instructed him to come up with an original campaign – in 24 hours – to promote star client Allied Drug & Foods over-the-counter indigestion medication, "Aspercel." Allieds Chairman of the Board, Tom Dugan, wants a "jet-set" appeal campaign that will "give sour stomachs class and dignity." The second problem is Helen, Freds teenage daughter. She loves horses, takes riding classes and has already had decent success in some competitions. Her biggest wish is to have her own horse, which her riding instructor Suzie Clemens feels will give the girl much-needed confidence, both as a young girl and as an equestrian. However, its a dream that Fred, Helen, and even Helens Aunt Martha, know they cant actually afford. In addition to the fact that Fred is allergic to horses. After a frustrated night brainstorming, Fred gets the idea to solve both problems at once: Acquire a good horse, name him "Aspercel" – and with Helen riding him – bring the name of the clients product into the press, all the while fulfilling his daughters dream. In order to accomplish this, of course, Helen and "Aspy" have to win a few prizes and make the horse a celebrated figure. Fred enlists the aid of Helens riding instructor, Suzie, and is assisted by teenager Ronny Gardner – who quickly develops eyes for Helen. Helen does begin to win ribbons, but the resulting publicity is below Dugans expectations. When Helen learns that her fathers job is at stake, she falters under pressure and fails to win an important show. Suzie, however, realizes Aspercels potential when the animal carries Fred over a 7-foot wall – and tops that by out-running a police car. Suzie volunteers to ride Aspercel in the International Horse Show in Washington, and suggests that her ex-fiancé, the wealthy Archer Madison – who once rode on the U.S. Equestrian Team – be brought in as trainer. Suppressing his jealousy of Archer, Fred reluctantly agrees. As the result, Suzie and Aspercel win the championship, and all ends happily as Fred is rewarded with a promotion, a happy daughter, and Suzies love.
The Horse in the Gray Flannel Suit
1968