During their visit to Bucknell University, husband and wife Scott (Ferrell) and Kate Johansen (Poehler) warn their daughter of the dangers of being in college. Alex (Simpkins) acknowledges her parents warnings and expresses her interest in attending the same University her parents went to. Alex gets accepted to the University, which the Johansens expect to be funded by their communitys scholarship program. Unfortunately during a community town hall meeting, city councilor Bob Schaeffer (Kroll) announces that they will not be doing the scholarship program in favor of building a community pool, to which everyone but the Johansens agrees. The Johansens try to find funding through asking for a loan, a salary raise for Scott, and getting Kates job back, but are denied. They reluctantly agree to go with their friend and neighbor, Frank Theodorakis (Mantzoukas), who is going through a divorce with wife Raina (Watkins) due to his gambling and porn addiction to a previously planned trip to Las Vegas. After numerous wins playing craps they lose their winnings after Scott jinxes the table by telling Frank not to roll a seven. Back home, Frank convinces the Johansens to start an underground casino in his own house to raise money for their daughters tuition and to help him get his wife back. The casino operation proves to be running smoothly as they gain more customers. In another community town hall meeting, Bob becomes suspicious, as there are only a few attendees, and suspends the meeting until after launching an investigation. Back to the Johansens casino, Frank discovers that one of the gamblers, Carl (Zissis), is counting cards. The Johansens and Frank confront him, but he brags that he works for mob boss Tommy Papouli (Renner). Scott accidentally chops off Carls middle finger, earning him the nickname "The Butcher", and makes the community afraid of him, which inadvertently increases their profits. Several thousand dollars away from reaching their goal, they are caught by Bob and officer Chandler (Huebel), who confiscate their money and order them to close down the casino. Nonetheless, they continue their business. The house burns down after being invaded by Tommy Papouli, whom the Johansens accidentally set on fire. Having admitted their plot to Alex, they team up with officer Chandler, who had let them loose, to steal the money back from Bob. Officer Chandler convinces Bob that the three still continued the casino even after he had ordered them to stop and shows a video of the people mocking him. Bob asks Officer Chandler to go with him to arrest the Johansens at the casino, which gives the Johansens the chance to steal their money back. Dawn (Tolman) alerts Bob that the Johansens are in the town hall, which convinces Bob to go back. Bob tries to make Officer Chandler drive faster, but gets into an accident himself. Bob runs back on foot to the town hall to find the Johansens with the money. After chasing the Johansens, Bob reveals his personal interest with the casino money as well as his plot to steal money from the city budget for himself and Dawn, who leaves him and returns to her husband (Scovel). Bob is arrested, while Scott and Kate use the money they took back from him to pay for their daughters college tuition.
The House (2017 film)
2017