The book begins with council workmen arriving at Arthur Dents house. They wish to demolish his house in order to build a bypass. Arthurs best friend, Ford Prefect, arrives, warning him of the end of the world. Ford is revealed to be an alien who had come to Earth to research it for the titular Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy, an enormous work providing information about every planet and place in the universe. The two head to a pub, where the locals question Fords knowledge of the Apocalypse. An alien race, known as Vogons, show up to demolish Earth in order to build a bypass for an intergalactic highway. Arthur and Ford manage to get onto the Vogon ship just before Earth is demolished, where they are forced to listen to horrible Vogon poetry as a form of torture. Arthur and Ford are ordered to say how much they like the poetry in order to avoid being thrown out of the airlock, and while Ford finds listening to be painful, Arthur believes it to be genuinely good, since human poetry is apparently even worse. Arthur and Ford are then placed into the airlock and jettisoned into space, only to be rescued by Zaphod Beeblebroxs ship, the Heart of Gold. Zaphod, a semi-cousin of Ford, is the President of the Galaxy, and is accompanied by a depressed robot named Marvin and a human woman by the name of Trillian. The five embark on a journey to find the legendary planet known as Magrathea, known for selling luxury planets. Once there, they are taken into the planets centre by a man named Slartibartfast. There, they learn that a supercomputer named Deep Thought, who determined the ultimate answer to life, the universe, and everything to be the number 42, created Earth as an even greater computer to calculate the question to which 42 is the answer. Trillians mice, actually part of the group of sentient and hyper-intelligent superbeings that had Earth created in the first place, reject the idea of building a second Earth to redo the process, and offer to buy Arthurs brain in the hope that it contains the question, leading to a fight when he declines. Zaphod saves Arthur when the brain is about to be removed, and the group decides to go to The Restaurant at the End of the Universe.
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (book)
2005