Evil sorceress Queen Ravennas powers allow her to know that her younger sister Freya, whose powers have not emerged, is not only engaged in an illicit affair with nobleman Andrew, but is also pregnant with his child. Sometime after Freya gives birth to a baby girl, Freya discovers that Andrew murdered their child and, in a grief-fueled rage, Freya kills him with her sudden emergence of ice powers. Freya abandons the kingdom and builds herself a new kingdom. Ruling as the Ice Queen, Freya orders children to be abducted so they can be trained to avoid the pain of love (as she suffered), and to be an army of fearsome huntsmen to conquer for her. Despite the training, two of her best huntsmen, Eric and Sara, grow up and fall in love, secretly marry, and plan to escape together. Freya discovers their secret and confronts them, creates a massive ice wall to separate them, then casts Eric out of her kingdom after first forcing him to watch as Sara is killed by their fellow huntsmen. Seven years later, and after Ravennas death, Queen Snow White falls ill after hearing Ravennas Magic Mirror calling her. Because of its dark magic, she ordered it to be taken to Sanctuary, the magical place that sheltered Snow White during the events leading to Ravennas death, so the mirrors magic could forever be contained. Snow Whites husband, William, informs Eric that the soldiers tasked with carrying the Mirror went missing while en route to the Sanctuary. Eric realizes that he is being watched by Freya through magic. Knowing the magic of the mirror can make Freya even stronger, Eric agrees to investigate, but reluctantly allows Snow Whites dwarf ally Nion and his half-brother Gryff to come along. While travelling to the last known location of the soldiers, the trio are attacked by a group of Freyas huntsmen, but are rescued by Sara. Sara reveals that she was imprisoned by Freya the entire time, only to escape recently. While Eric was made to see Sara die she was made to see him running away rather than fighting to help her. Eric convinces her that Freya conjured these visions, and eventually has Sara to join with him and the dwarves to thwart Freya. The quartet is ensnared in a trap set by she-dwarves Bromwyn and Doreena. They convince the she-dwarves to help them find the Mirror, and the two lead them to the goblins that stole the mirror from Snow Whites soldiers. The party fight off the goblins and retrieve the Mirror. As the group nears the Sanctuary with the Mirror, they are ambushed by Freya and her huntsmen. Freya reveals Sara has been loyal to her all along, and that Sara was using her companions to find the Mirror. In the ensuing chaos, Nion and Doreena are turned into ice statues, and Sara shoots an arrow into Erics chest on Freyas order, killing him. Freya departs with the Magic Mirror, but she is unaware that Sara intentionally missed so that Eric could live. Back in her palace, Freya recites the iconic verse associated with the Mirror, resurrecting Ravenna, who became one with the Mirror when Snow White vanquished her. Boasting a new suite of powers thanks to the Mirror, Ravenna usurps Freyas rule by coordinating Freyas huntsmen and army to reclaim the kingdoms Snow White liberated. Eric infiltrates the ice palace with help of Gryff and Bromwyn. He attempts to assassinate Freya, but is stopped by Ravenna. When Freya realizes that Sara didnt actually kill Eric, she reluctantly sentences them both to death because of Ravennas manipulation. However, Eric is able to convince a few huntsmen to rebel, claiming the love of brethren. Ravenna begins to kill the huntsmen. Freya, realizing that she regards the huntsmen as her "children", protects them with an ice wall, separating the huntsmen from the sisters. As Eric, Sara and the rebelling huntsmen climb over the wall to fight Ravenna and Freya, the two sisters argue over the icy kingdom. Freya forces Ravenna (who as the mirror spirit must answer her summoners questions truthfully) to reveal that she ultimately caused the death of Freyas child so she could remain the fairest of them all, so Freya finally turns against her sister. Freya is impaled by Ravenna, but with her remaining strength Freya freezes the Magic Mirror. Eric shatters the Mirror, thus destroying Ravenna. As Freya dies from her wounds, she smiles at the sight of a vision of her old loving self, and gladly witnesses Eric and Sara together. With Freyas death, those who had been imprisoned by Freyas magic are set free, including Nion and Doreena, while a mysterious golden bird flies overhead. Eric, Sara and the huntsmen look forward to a new future while the dwarves pair off romantically and Eric and Sara share a kiss finally happy to have a life together for the first time in years. In a post-credits scene, Snow White in a red dress with a crown on her head is seen from behind. The aforementioned bird flies and lands on the balcony next to her.
The Huntsman: Winter's War
2016