Victor Norman (Clark Gable) is a radio advertising executive just back from World War II and looking for a job in his old field. He literally throws a few loose dollars out the hotel window, telling the hotel valet that being down to his last even $50 "will help me seem sincere about not needing a job." On his way to his interview, he stops and spends thirty-five of them on a "sincere" hand-painted necktie.  His appointment is at the Kimberly Advertising Agency, with Mr. Kimberly himself (Adolphe Menjou). As the two size each other up, they are interrupted by a phone call from Evan Llewellyn Evans (Sydney Greenstreet), the tyrannical, high-volume chief of the Beautee Soap company, the agencys biggest account. The call throws the staff into turmoil and derails Vics interview, so he offers to perform an unpleasant task for Kimberly: recruit Mrs. Kay Dorrance (Deborah Kerr), widow of a WWII U.S. general and of noble British birth, for a Beautee soap campaign featuring Manhattan socialites. A phone call to the Dorrance home misrepresenting himself as being from the "Charity League" gets him an appointment. At the elegant Sutton Place townhouse he rapidly charms Kay into agreeing, learning in the process shes not so well-heeled as the home and address suggest. But when they later arrive at the photo shoot, the Beautee art director produces a layout featuring "a loose and flouncy" negligee. Vic overrules the concept and directs a dignified portrait of Kay, in an evening gown, flanked by her children. In the next days maelstrom, Vic and "Kim" are summoned to Beautees offices where they are confronted by Mr. Evans, whose first action is to expectorate heartily onto his conference table. He summarizes his philosophy on advertising: "You have just seen me do a disgusting thing. But you will always remember it!" He confronts Vic about the change to his Dorrance ad, and Vic tells him that "Beautee soap is a clean product—and your advertisement is not clean." When Vic plays the radio commercial he produced overnight—"Love That Soap"—Evans likes it and directs Kim to hire Vic. "You have your teeth in our problems," he says, removing and brandishing his own dentures. Vic finds himself attracted to Kay. When the two double-date with Mr. and Mrs. Kimberly, a belligerently drunken Kim confesses that he started his agency by informing on his mentor to government authorities and stealing the Beautee soap account. The featured performer at the nightclub the couples attend is an apparent old flame of Vics, Jean Ogilvie (Ava Gardner), a torch singer hed run into and chatted up at his first visit to the Kimberly agency just days earlier. She acts very familiar with Vic in front of his date, unsettling Kay. In the wake of an evening spoiled by Kimberlys behavior, Vic persuades Kay to watch the sunset together at the beach, where they grow close. In the morning glow he arranges a purportedly above-board weekend getaway for the couple at a seaside haunt in Connecticut hed used for pre-war trysting. When Kay arrives and finds that the place has slipped under its new owner and that the pair have been booked into adjoining rooms with a connecting door she leaves, disgusted at the circumstances and profoundly disappointed in Vic. Evans summons Vic and Kim to an abrupt Sunday morning "chat-chat" and reveals he wants a new radio variety show built around C-list ex-burlesque comedian Buddy Hare (Keenan Wynn). Chastising the ad men for his having to do their work for them, Evans informs them that Hares agent Dave Lash (Edward Arnold) will be leaving for the coast on that evenings train. Vic promises to ink a deal on board, before word of Evanss interest leaks out and boosts Hares price. On the way to the station, he stops at Kays house, but she is remote: "Youll make any promise to make your point," and he replies, "Thats the kind of guy I am." Their parting is unsettling for each.  On the train, Vic bumps again into Jean Ogilvie, whom he recruits for his plan to sign Hare: with her shilling, he gets Lash to offer Hare at a bargain basement price. They shake on the deal, and when Lash realizes he has been had, he graciously agrees to honor it. Once in Hollywood, Vic and his writers set about creating the radio show for Hare; early on, they ban him from the proceedings because he so obnoxious and his jokes both off-key and threadbare. Vic accepts an invitation from Jeanne for dinner at her place, where both ruefully discover Vic is still in love with Kay. He is then is surprised to find Kay in the shadows outside his bungalow when he returns, there to try to patch things up. She is successful—Vic starts talking marriage, and seeing himself as a breadwinner for Kay and her children. Trouble intervenes when a legal technicality threatens the contract with Buddy Hare. Though it appears to be based on an honest mistake by Lash, Vic uses cruel innuendo about Lashs childhood and implied backmail to get the agent to agree to absorb the large loss he will face making good. Vic immediately regrets the tactic, and Lashs wounded demeanor makes him feel even shabbier. Back in New York with a recording of the proposed show in hand, Vic and Kim are summoned to a 2 AM meeting with Evans immediately upon Vics arrival. The newly-compliant Vic—now with thoughts of a family to feed—finds himself groveling like everyone else in the room, and realizes it is not for him. Even though Evans liked the show, Vic gets up, tells Evans off for his imperious and belittling behavior, and strides out of the room. Outside in Kays car, Vic announces their marriage will have to wait until he can regain his earning power. She replies that the kind of money he thinks he needs and believes shed both desire and deserve isnt important—that he "can sell things with dignity and taste." He reaches in his pocket, fetches out his last pocket money, and hurls it up the street. "Now were starting with exactly nothing," he says, "its neater that way."
The Hucksters
1947