John Singer is a deaf-mute who works as a silver engraver in a small southern town. His only friend is a mentally disabled mute, Spiros Antonapoulos, who continually gets into trouble with the law since he doesnt know any better. When Spiros is committed to a mental institution by his family, John decides to move to a town near the institution in order to be near his friend. John finds work there and rents a room in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Kelly, who are having financial difficulties as a result of Mr. Kellys recent hip injury. Because the Kellys teenage daughter, Margaret "Mick" resents having to give up her room to him, John makes a few efforts to win her friendship. John also tries to become friends with Jake Blount, a semi-alcoholic drifter, and Dr. Copeland, an embittered segregationist African American who is secretly dying of lung cancer. Dr. Copelands deepest disappointment is that his educated daughter, Portia, works as a domestic and is married to a field hand. Following a successful attempt to win Micks friendship by encouraging her love for classical music, John visits Spiros, and although he takes his him out for the day, John is lonelier than ever when he returns home. Meanwhile, Portia and her husband are attacked and he is jailed for defending himself. Portia gets upset at Dr. Copeland for not perjuring himself to help bring out the truth about what happened in the fight. Dr. Copeland and Portias relationship gets even more strained after her husband has his leg amputated after being placed in irons for trying to escape jail. John gets them to reconcile after Portia learns from John of Dr. Copelands illness. Mick willfully loses her virginity to the sensitive older brother of one of her classmates after she realizes that her fathers injury has permanently disabled him and she will have to leave school and go to work in order to help support the family. Disturbed by her sexual initiation, she ignores Johns request for some company. John goes to visit Spiros and learns that he has been dead for several weeks. After visiting his friends grave and saying goodbye in sign language, John returns to his room and commits suicide. Some months afterwards, Mick brings flowers to Johns grave and meets Dr. Copeland. As they talk, Mick asks questions "why did he do it?" and is determined to face whatever her future may be.
The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter (film)
1968