In 1923 in England, General Hetherton is instructing his grandson Jim to shoot a rifle. Unfortunately, Jims dog runs in the way and Jim accidentally kills him. The incident affects him deeply and he becomes a pacifist. Years later, at the commencement of World War II, Jim is headmaster at a school and has fallen in love with a young Austrian woman, Dora Bruckman, who works for his sister-in-law, May. He is unaware that Dora is a Nazi spy. She meets regularly with her supervisors in London, Mrs. Müller and Kurt van der Breughel, who are posing as Austrian refugees. Jims brother Roger joins the Royal Air Force, but Jim applies for exemption from fighting. This is granted. Dora is ordered to provide German bombers with a bearing to a camouflaged airfield using the headlights of Mays car. She is caught in the act by Mays son Tommy, but claims May must have left the lights on. Dora has to turn them off before the bombers arrive, so the airfield is saved. Jim and Dora marry to save her from being removed from the district. Kurt plans to use Jim in an effort to convince influential English people to consider capitulation. He sends a fake letter to Jim, asking him to join an effort to educate refugee children, a task Jim is eager to accept. When they meet, Kurt suggests to Jim that the Germans might consider negotiating terms for peace with Britain. Jim tells Dora afterwards that Kurt spoke more like a German than a Dutchman. Worried, Dora telephones van der Breughel and recommends bombing the airfield that night. She pours gasoline over a hay wagon. Tommy shows up unexpectedly and, undetected, sees what she is doing. She locks him in a room, but when he blurts out that he knows what she is up to, she pulls out a pistol. Fortunately for Tommy, she hears the bombers approaching and rushes out to set fire to the hay. While Roger gets confirmation that Dora is a saboteur, Tommy escapes, encounters Jim, and tells him of his wifes betrayal. When Jim arrives home, Dora is packed and ready to leave. She admits to being a spy and then shoots him in the shoulder, before her gun jams. Jim kills her, just before Roger arrives. Afterward, Jim joins the Royal Air Force as a gunner.
The Hour Before the Dawn
1944