A visionary astronomer, Dr. Janos Rukh (Boris Karloff) has invented a telescope that can look far out into deep space, into the Andromeda Galaxy, and photograph light rays that will show the Earths past. He has theorized this as being possible for some years, much to his discredit among his fellow scientist-colleagues. Looking at the remote past on a planetarium-like dome in his lab, two of those ardently skeptical scientists, Dr. Benet (Bela Lugosi) and Sir Francis Stevens (Walter Kingsford), watch a large meteorite smash into the Earth a billion years ago in what is now the continent of Africa. Amazed by Rukhs demonstration, the pair invite him to go on an expedition to locate the impact site. Rukh finds the meteorite in Africa but is exposed to its unknown radiation, dubbed "Radium X". This causes him to glow in the dark and to make his mere touch instantaneous deadly to any living thing. The exposure also begins to warp his mind. Returning to the base camp, he entreats Dr. Benet to devise a means of neutralizing Radium Xs poisoning effect. Benet develops a serum that holds the lethal elements toxicity at bay, but Rukh must take regular doses of the antidote or he will revert to being a luminous killing machine. Rukh returns to his jungle base and learns from Benet that this situation has been complicated all along by the romantic relationship between Rukhs wife, Diana (Frances Drake), and Ronald Drake (Frank Lawton), the nephew of Lady Arabella Stevens (Beulah Bondi), Dr. Stevens wife. Benet takes a piece of the meteorite back to Europe, where he modifies its effects to help people, including curing the blind. Working along similar lines, Rukh cures his mothers blindness as well, but in spite of her warning, he goes to Paris to confront Benet and the others. There he pretends to acknowledge his wifes new relationship with Drake, in reality it is the first step of his plan for revenge. Rukh murders a Frenchman who closely resembles him, making it appear that he has died and been rendered unrecognizable by an accident with Radium X. Believing the deception, Diana marries Ronald. Rukh now begins to use his radiation poisoning to kill off the members of the expedition. He marks each death by disintegrating a single statue on the exterior of a church across from where he is hiding. Each time, he focuses the radiation through a window using a raygun-like apparatus. Rukh manages to kill both of the Stevenses before the police realize what is happening. Dr. Benet helps them set a trap by convening a conference of scientists at his home to discuss Radium X, but Rukh secretly gains access and kills Benet. He has saved his revenge on Ronald and Diana for last, but finds himself unable to kill his wife. This hesitation brings him to a confrontation with his mother, the most important woman in his life. She has foreseen her sons growing madness and smashes the last of his antidote bottles to stop him. As the Radium X begins to consume him from within, Rukh jumps from a window. He disappears in an explosive flame, vaporized before reaching the ground.
The Invisible Ray (1936 film)
1936