In the early 1960s, Adam Cramer arrives in the small Southern town of Caxton with an agenda that soon becomes clear. Caxtons "whites only" high school is about to undergo forced desegregation and admit black students due to a court order, and Cramer, purportedly working on behalf of an organization called The Patrick Henry Society, is a racist working to incite the white townspeople to strongly and possibly violently resist the desegregation. Although Cramer is not from the area or even from the South (shown by his lack of a Southern accent), he quickly charms most of the people he meets, presenting himself as a confident, smooth-talking, well-mannered gentleman. He quickly convinces wealthy landowner Verne Shipman to back him, and seduces Ella, the pretty teenage daughter of the local newspaper editor Tom McDaniel. The white locals are not happy about having black students attend the "white school", but prior to Cramers arrival, most were prepared to grudgingly comply with the law. However, after Cramer, with Shipmans help, makes an inflammatory speech in front of the town hall and organizes a cross burning in the black neighborhood, the whites are moved to violence, first threatening a black family who happen to be driving through town after Cramers speech, and then blowing up the local black church, killing the preacher. After the church bombing, Cramer is jailed, but the locals join together to get him quickly released. Apart from his racist rabblerousing, Cramer also seduces Vi, the emotionally unstable wife of traveling salesman Sam Griffin, Cramers next door neighbor at the Caxton hotel. Vi, ashamed of her lapse, leaves Griffin, who figures out what happened and comes after Cramer with Cramers own gun. The terrified Cramers confident facade crumbles for the first time; when he manages to get the gun and point it back at Griffin, he is too weak to pull the trigger, and Griffin reveals that he already removed the bullets from the gun before the confrontation. Griffin predicts that Cramer will soon lose control of the racially charged tensions that he has ignited in the town. McDaniel, after seeing Cramer in action, realizes that his own sympathies are with the blacks and feels compelled to stand with them against the racists. After the preacher is killed, the families of the black students hesitate to send their children back to the white high school for fear of more violence, but McDaniel encourages them, and walks the students to school himself through the town past the disapproving glares of other white townspeople. After the students enter the school, several townspeople confront and severely beat McDaniel, causing him to be hospitalized with broken ribs, internal injuries and the loss of his eye. Cramer secretly meets with Ella, who is upset and worried about her father, and convinces her that the townspeople are planning to kill her father and that the only way to save him is for Ella to do what Cramer says. Ella, following Cramers directions, lures her black classmate Joey Green to a storage room on the pretext of helping her get some heavy boxes from a high shelf. She then screams and falsely accuses him of attempting to rape her. Joey denies it, and the principal believes him, but also knows that most people will believe Ella. An angry mob led by Cramer and Shipman forms in front of the school. Joey, rather than escape out the back door with the principal and attempt to reach the safety of the sheriffs office, insists on going out to confront the mob. Shipman beats Joey and the mob begins to lynch him on the school playground swing set. Suddenly Griffin appears with Ella, who confesses that she lied at Cramers instigation in order to save her fathers life. In front of the mob, Ella apologizes to Joey, telling him that Cramer said he would not be harmed and would only be expelled from the white school. Realizing that they have been manipulated by Cramer, the townspeople slowly walk away, ignoring Cramers exhortations, until only he and Griffin are left on the empty playground. Griffin tells Cramer that his "work" in Caxton is finished and that he should catch the next bus out of town.
The Intruder (1962 film)
1962