Shortly after the Soviet Union launches Sputnik 1 in October 1957, an object from space crashes in the ocean just off the Maine coast, then enters the forest near Rockwell, Maine. Nine-year-old Hogarth Hughes goes to investigate and finds a giant robot being electrocuted as it tries to eat the transmission lines of an electrical substation. Hogarth turns off the station, and the Giant runs off. Hogarth tracks down and befriends the Giant, finding it docile and curious. When it eats the railroad tracks in the path of an oncoming train, Hogarth tries to have the robot repair the damage, but the train collides with its head and derails. Hogarth helps usher the Giant away from the scene, discovering that its damaged parts are drawn to the Giant and can undergo self-repair. Hogarth hides it in his familys barn. After dinner with his widowed mother, Annie, Hogarth reads comics to the Giant. It is impressed with the adventures of Superman, but agitated by how the villainous "Atomo the Metal Menace" is depicted. Hogarth calms the Giant by telling it "you are who you choose to be". The recent incidents lead U.S. government agent Kent Mansley to town. He discovers evidence of Hogarths involvement and rents a room in their house to stay close to the boy. Hogarth ditches Kent long enough to move the Giant to a junkyard owned by beatnik artist Dean McCoppin, where they are able to pretend the Giant is one of Deans scrap metal sculptures. Nevertheless, the easily spooked Kent issues orders for the military, led by General Shannon Rogard, to move into town. Hogarth enjoys his time with the Giant but is forced to explain the nature of death when they witness hunters kill a deer. One day, Hogarth is playing with the Giant using a toy gun, which unintentionally activates The Giants weapons system, and Dean rescues Hogarth before one strikes him. The Giant reverts to its docile form and Dean orders it away for Hogarths safety, but Hogarth gives chase. Dean realizes the Giant was acting in self-defense and quickly catches up to Hogarth as they follow the Giant into town. The Giant saves two boys falling from a roof when it arrives, winning over the townspeople. Kent convinces Rogard to start an attack against the robot. The Giant exposes its weapons again, and readily overpowers the military. Dean and Hogarth arrive and calm the Giant, but the military continues to fight it. Hogarth is knocked unconscious, and the Giant, believing Hogarth to be dead, becomes enraged and enters an automatic living weapon status, continuing its retaliation. Kent convinces Rogard to prepare to launch a nuclear missile from the USS Nautilus offshore if they cannot stop it. Dean and Annie revive Hogarth, and he helps return the Giant to its docile state, while Dean explains the situation to the military. Rogard is ready to stand down when Kent panics and orders the missile launch. Rogard furiously reminds Kent that the missile is locked onto the Giants current position and they will all be killed in the blast radius. Kent tries to escape but the Giant stops him, and Rogards men hold him at gun point. Hogarth explains to the Giant what will happen when the missile strikes. The Giant says farewell to Hogarth and flies off to intercept the missile, remembering Hogarths words about being who one chooses to be, and the Giant says, "Superman" just before collision. The missile explodes harmlessly in the atmosphere. As the townspeople and military are relieved to be alive, Hogarth is saddened by the robots apparent destruction. Some months later, the town has constructed a statue of the Giant in its memory, and Dean and Annie are starting a relationship. Hogarth receives a package from Rogard, a bolt from the Giant being the only remnant they could find. That night, Hogarth sees the bolt trying to move on its own, and he opens the window, letting the bolt roll free. The bolt joins many other parts as they converge on the Giants head on the Langjökull glacier in Iceland. The Giants head activates, and it smiles as it begins putting itself back together.
The Iron Giant
1999