Free-spirited Jerry (Steckler as "Flagg"), his girlfriend Angela (Sharon Walsh), and his buddy Harold (Atlas King) head out for a day at a seaside carnival. In one venue, a dance number is performed by Marge (Carolyn Brandt), a superstitious alcoholic who drinks before and between shows, and her partner, Bill Ward, for a small audience. Backstage, Marge sees a black cat, and disturbed by its appearance, visits powerful carnival fortune-teller Estrella (Brett OHara) to find out what it means. In her fortune-telling booth, Estrella predicts death for Marge, who runs out, terrified, past Jerry, Angela, and Harold. The three decide to have their fortunes told. Estrella predicts "a death near water" for someone close to Angela. After leaving Estrellas booth, Jerry sees Estrellas sister Carmelita (Erina Enyo), a stripper who hypnotizes him with her icy stare, and he is compelled to see her act. Angela leaves the carnival, disgusted, with Harold in tow. After the show, Jerry is tricked backstage into Estrellas room with a note and she turns Jerry into a zombie by hypnotizing him with a spiraling wheel. Jerry then goes on a violent overnight rampage he will have no memory of, killing Marge and fatally wounding Bill. The next day, Jerry attempts to strangle his girlfriend Angela as well. It develops that Estrella, with her henchman Ortega (Jack Brady), has been turning carnival patrons into zombies by throwing acid into their faces, then imprisoning them in her fortune-telling booth. Interspersed through the film are several song-and-dance production numbers in the carnivals nightclub, with songs like "Choo Choo ChBoogie" and "Shook out of Shape". Jerry, suspicious of his fragmented memory, confronts Estrella at the carnival. He is hypnotized a second time, and that night stabs a carnival showgirl and barker in the showgirls home. Returning to Estrella, she throws acid in Jerrys face and attempts to imprison him, only to have her other zombies escape. The zombies immediately kill Estrella, Carmelita, Ortega and several performers before being shot by police. Jerry, himself partially disfigured but not a zombie, escapes the carnival and is pursued to the shoreline, where the police shoot him dead in front of Angela and Harold. Estrellas prediction of "a death near water" for someone close to Angela is fulfilled.
The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies
1964