Businessman Robert Scott Carey, called "Scott", is on vacation with his wife Louise on his brother Charlies boat off the California coast. When Louise goes below deck for beer, a strange cloud on the horizon passes over the craft, leaving a reflective mist on Scotts bare skin. Six months later, Scott notices that his shirt and slacks are too big for him. Scott, Louise, and Scotts physician, Dr. Bramson, try to dismiss this as ordinary weight loss. As the trend continues, however, Bramson has X-rays taken. X-rays taken a week apart prove Scott is getting smaller. Bramson refers him to the California Medical Research Institute, and after weeks of sophisticated tests, Scott and his team of new doctors determine that the mist to which he was exposed was radioactive. This, combined with an exposure to insecticide four months later, set off a chain reaction that is mutating Scotts cells, causing him to shrink. Scott tells Louise in light of his predicament that she is free to leave him. Louise promises to stand by her marriage vows; however, during the conversation, Scotts wedding ring falls off his shrunken finger. Unable to keep his job, Scott resorts to selling the rights to his story to the press, and becomes a national curiosity. The media and sightseers camp out on his lawn, and Louise requests an unlisted number to end the constant ringing of the phone. He begins writing a book of his experiences. Humiliated by his condition and the public spectacle he has become, he lashes out at Louise, who is reduced to tears of despair. The doctors develop an antidote for Scotts affliction, arresting his shrinking when he is 36.5 in (93 cm) tall and weighs 52 pounds (24 kg). However, a new treatment will be needed to return him to his former size. In a moment of self-loathing, he runs out of the house, his first time being outside since he sold his story. At a neighborhood coffee shop, he meets and becomes friends with a midget named Clarice, who is slightly shorter than him. She is appearing in a carnival sideshow in town and persuades him that life is not all bad being their size. Inspired, he begins to work on his book again. Two weeks later, however, he notices he has become shorter than Clarice, meaning the antidote has stopped working. After shrinking enough to fit inside a dollhouse, Scott becomes tyrannical with Louise, and contemplates suicide. Leaving on an errand, Louise accidentally lets inside their cat, Butch. Raked by Butchs claws, Scott flees into the cellar. However, as he tries to push the door closed Butch forces it open, sending Scott flying into a box of rags. Returning to find a bloody scrap of Scotts clothing, Louise tearfully assumes that the cat ate him, and his death is announced to the world. Concluding he cannot scale the stairs, Scott undertakes the task of survival in the cellar, which at his current size is a cavernous, inhospitable world. Spotting a spider twice his size, he raids a sewing kit to arm himself with a straight pin and grappling hook constructed of thread and a bent pin. He uses them to ascend to the cellar window in search of food. A screen prevents him from leaving through the window. Charlie persuades Louise to move out, and they go down to the cellar to get her luggage. By now, however, Scott is so small that they cannot hear his screams for help. Determined to at least be master of the cellar world, Scott challenges the spider. He ties his grappling hook to a pair of scissors and harpoons the spider, but when he pushes the scissors off the edge the thread catches and breaks. He battles on with his pin, finally stabbing the spider through its head. He finds that he is now so small that he can walk between the wires of the window screen. Scott accepts his fate and is resigned to the adventure that awaits him in even smaller realms. He knows that he will eventually shrink to atomic size, but no matter how small he becomes, he concludes that he will still matter in the universe because, "to God, there is no zero".
The Incredible Shrinking Man
1957