Annie Laird (Demi Moore) is a sculptor who lives in New York with her son Oliver (Joseph Gordon-Levitt); she works a day job as a data entry clerk. Annie is selected to be a juror in the trial of mob boss Louie Boffano (Tony Lo Bianco), who is accused of ordering the murder of Salvatore Riggio. Mark Cordell (Alec Baldwin) buys some of Annies artwork and then wines and dines her before she discovers he is better known as "The Teacher", Boffanos enforcer and the actual perpetrator of Riggios murder. Mark tells Annie to persuade the jury to acquit Boffano, or she and Oliver will die. A frightened Annie convinces the jury to acquit Boffano. After the trial, Boffano questions whether Annie should "disappear", seeing her as a loose end. Mark convinces Boffano otherwise. Mark goes after Annies friend Juliet (Anne Heche). After having sex with her, Mark reveals himself to be Annies stalker. He pulls a gun and forces Juliet to take a fatal drug overdose. Mark boasts of Juliets murder to Eddie (James Gandolfini), who also works for Boffano but unlike Mark, is sympathetic to Annie as he is a parent himself. To ensure her sons safety, Annie hides Oliver in the village of Tui Cuch, Guatemala. The prosecutor, who figured out Annie was threatened, wants Annie to turn states witness so they can go after Mark, who now plans to take over Boffanos empire. Annie convinces the prosecutor to let her wear a wire in a scheduled meeting with Mark. Annie removes the wire and gives it to Eddie, insinuating she and Mark are now a couple. Annie then succeeds in getting Mark to incriminate himself in a boastful rant about his ambitions, which she tapes on a hidden tape recorder. She uses the tape to tip off Boffano, who schedules a meeting with Mark. Boffanos plan backfires when Mark kills both Boffano and his son Joseph (Michael Rispoli), along with their henchmen. He also slashes Eddies throat. Mark, furious at Annies betrayal, calls her, revealing his intention to travel to Guatemala to kill Oliver. Annie travels to Guatemala where there is a showdown with Mark. He chases Oliver into a structure, where locals shoot Mark. Annie, also armed with a pistol, fires six more shots, making sure Mark is dead after he tries to shoot Annie with a gun pulled from his ankle holster. Oliver is unharmed.
The Juror
1996