In 1956 a group of passengers stranded for days at Budapest airport by the Hungarian uprising are taken in a bus towards the frontier with neutral Austria. A sick man in the back seat, who claims to be an Englishman called Flemyng, seems to be known to an aristocratic Englishwoman in the front seat called Lady Ashmore. The journey is difficult with diversions and roadblocks, some manned by Soviet troops and some by Hungarian insurgents. At a little town near the border, the passengers are taken off the bus by Major Surov, the local Russian commander. After questioning them and impounding their passports, he orders them to remain in the only hotel. He suspects that the passport of Flemyng, whose condition is worsening, is not genuine and he has also developed a strong interest in the attractive Lady Ashmore. It emerges that Flemyng is in fact a Hungarian insurgent whom Lady Ashmore, his lover, is trying to smuggle to safety. Surov deduces both facts but does not act, hoping that Lady Ashmore will offer herself to him in exchange for a passage across the frontier. Speaking good English, he uses the passengers trapped in the hotel as a sounding board for his views, arguing that Russians are human too and questioning the wisdom of imposing Marxism by military force. However, with Flemyng getting weaker from what is revealed to be an untreated gunshot wound, Lady Ashmore bribes a fisherman to take the two of them across the lake to Austria by night. Surov deduces what is happening and captures them both. Getting Flemyng treated by an army doctor, he sends Lady Ashmore back to the hotel. The other passengers are furious that she has jeopardised their release by her selfish behaviour and an American woman tells her very frankly what she can do to save them all. Sniping by Hungarians has been keeping the Russian garrison on edge and a shot wounds Surovs beloved black horse. As he is ordering a sergeant to kill the stricken animal, Lady Ashmore turns up to do her duty. In deep sorrow, he asks if she comes of her own free will. When she truthfully says no, he lets her go. In the morning he orders the bus to take the passengers, minus the arrested Flemyng, to a quiet spot where they can walk into Austria. As they begin to do so, Surov turns up with Flemyng and hands him to Lady Ashmore. Watching the two disappear, a Hungarian bullet kills him.
The Journey (1959 film)
1959