Tweety sits in his house, a bird cage, looking at the birds through the window. Tweety yearns dearly to fly freely like other birds, but not allowed to do so by Granny. That is considering his safety, as Sylvester is always lurking around waiting for a chance. Granny reads a newspaper advertisement by Jet Age Technology who has invented a $12.95 Flying Bird-Cage, which would allow birds fly safely. Granny, who understands Tweetys longing for freedom, decides to buy the cage and presents it to Tweety. This enables Tweety to fly around outdoors without leaving the security of his cage. Sylvester is at first taken aback at the sight of Tweety flying safely, piloting the jet-powered cage like an airplane. Two crows also watch in awe ("And all this time, Ive been doing it the hard way," one crow remarks). Sylvester resolves to ground Tweetys cage and get his meal; his eyes rolling around to follow his every move. Each of the following attempts are in vain: An attempt to snare the cage with a butterfly catchers net. The jet-powered cage is strong enough to drag the butterfly net, along with the cat hanging to it—until he crashes into a light pole. After Tweety coming in for flying instructions ("I forgot what to do in case of fog!"), Sylvester sneaks inside the cage. Tweety eventually senses hes in trouble and releases the "bombs" into a river while in mid-air, just before Sylvester is about to strike. Use of a rocket bomb to intercept the flying object of interest. The bomb simply flies back at the cat. A horseshoe-shaped magnet tied to a fishing rod. While the cage momentarily struggles against the magnets pull (and the puddy tries to reel in his meal), Tweety manages to get the cage to break free. Sylvester is dragged into downtown traffic and crashes into a bus. Sylvester using large flaps to fly beside Tweety. Sylvester gloats, mocking the bird for thinking he outsmarted him, but Tweety points out that Sylvester has his hands full. The cat tosses the flaps aside and shoots back, "Well now I havent!" ... just before he realizes hes in for a big fall! At the end, Sylvester—limping on crutches with all the bandages on—decides to joins the U.S. Air Force, vowing to earn his wings and get Tweety once and for all. Throughout the cartoon, the sound effects for the jet cages engines are more appropriate to a propeller-driven aircraft, and so is the terminology Tweety uses when he reads aloud from the pilots manual.
The Jet Cage
1962