In 1886, during the British Raj in India, Mowgli (Sean Naegeli) is the 5-year-old son of the widowed Nathoo, whose wife died in childbirth. Nathoo works as a tour guide. On one of his tours, he is leading Colonel Geoffrey Brydon (Sam Neill) and his men as well as Brydons 5-year-old daughter Katherine (Joanna Wolff). Unfortunately, fellow tour guide Buldeo and a few soldiers kill several animals for sport. This enrages Shere Khan, A Tiger who serves as the Jungles keeper and begins to pursue the tour group. That night Mowgli tells his father of a dream where he faced Shere Khan and showed no fear, becoming a Tiger himself. Shere Khan attacks the encampment. He succeeds in killing the two soldiers, but when he tries to kill Buldeo, Nathoo defends Buldeo, who ungratefully leaves him to be mauled to death by the Tiger. In the confusion, Mowgli is lost in the jungle with his pet wolf cub, Grey Brother. Brydon and his men believe Mowgli has been killed too. Mowgli is taken by Bagheera, a gentle black panther, to the wolf pack. Mowgli also befriends a bear cub named Baloo. Twenty years later, Mowgli, now a young man, discovers Monkey City, a legendary ancient city filled with treasure belonging to King Louie the Orangutan, who has his treasure guarded by Kaa the python. Forced to fight for his life, Mowgli succeeds in wounding the snake with a golden dagger that he retrieves from the treasure horde. Winning King Louies respect, Mowgli keeps the dagger as a trophy. Elsewhere, Katherine and her father are still stationed in India. She and Mowgli meet again, but neither recognize the other. Katherine is also in a relationship with one of Brydons soldiers, Captain William Boone. Mowgli enters the village in search of Katherine. Boone and his men manage to capture him and find the golden dagger from Monkey City in his possession. Katherine discovers an old bracelet of her mothers, one she gave to Mowgli when they were children, and instantly realizes who Mowgli is. She and Dr. Julius Plumford (a good friend of Brydons) decide that they must re-introduce Mowgli to civilization. In doing so, Mowgli and Katherine fall in love, much to Boones displeasure. Eventually, Boone convinces Mowgli to tell him of Monkey City and the treasure hoard that it holds, but refrains from revealing its location to him upon realizing his lack of respect for the jungle. Boone later proposes to Katherine, and she accepts. Around this time, after Boone and his men publicly humiliate him, Mowgli returns to the jungle as he does not feel at home in the village. After Boones cruel treatment of Mowgli, Katherine realizes she cannot marry Boone, so she decides to go back to England to get away from him. Meanwhile, Boone and his associates Lieutenant Wilkins and Sergeant Harley team up with Buldeo. The men recruit a jungle guide, Tabaqui, and gather some bandits to capture Mowgli in order to find out where the treasure is. Wilkins and Boone shoot Baloo when he comes to Mowglis defense, much to Mowglis distress. Buldeo and the bandits then ambush Katherine and her father (who is shot and wounded in the process). Even though Mowgli, along with Bagheera, Grey Brother, and the rest of the wolves, attack and kill most of the bandits, Buldeo manages to capture Katherine and her father and hands them over to Boone and his men, who plan to use them as blackmail: If Mowgli leads them to the treasure, Katherine and her father shall live. That night, the group learn Shere Khan is hunting them, enraged at Baloo being shot. Because of this Mowgli decides to escape. The next morning, Harley catches Mowgli escaping with the aid of Bagheera and gives chase, only to fall into quicksand and drown, despite Wilkins attempts to save him. Mowgli then has an elephant take the injured Brydon back to the village, after promising him to rescue Katherine. As the day progresses, Mowgli kills Tabaqui in self-defense when the latter attacks and tries to murder him. As the group reaches the outside of Monkey City, Wilkins becomes separated from the group and walks right into Shere Khan, where, after a brief chase, the Tiger mauls him to death. Eventually, the remaining group enters Monkey City, where Buldeo inadvertently entombs himself in a trap while trying to shoot Mowgli. Only Mowgli, Katherine, and Boone reach the treasure room, where Mowgli and Boone engage in a fierce fight until Mowgli injures the soldier with another dagger. Mowgli then escapes with Katherine, while Boone begins greedily pocketing treasure, only for Kaa to attack and kill him. As they escape from Monkey City, Mowgli and Katherine are confronted by Shere Khan. However, Mowgli shows no fear and stands up by roaring back at the Tiger who roars at Mowgli to make him run away. Shere Khan, impressed by Mowglis bravery acknowledges him as a creature of the jungle and allows Mowgli and Katherine to leave peacefully. Mowgli and Katherine meet both the Colonel and Baloo, both of whom have recovered from their injuries under Plumfords care. Mowgli becomes the new lord of the jungle after fulfilling his childhood dream of facing Shere Khan with no fear and he begins a relationship with Katherine.
The Jungle Book (1994 film)
1994