Joe Toy (Nick Robinson), on the verge of adulthood, finds himself increasingly frustrated by the attempts of his single father, Frank (Nick Offerman), to manage his life. After a family game night that ends with Joe calling the cops on Frank for false reasons, Joe declares freedom once and for all, and escapes to a clearing he found in the woods with his best friend, Patrick (Gabriel Basso), who was also sick of his life at home with his annoying and seemingly lame parents, and a strange kid named Biaggio (Moisés Arias) who just happened to tag along. He announces that they are going to build a house there, free from responsibility and parents. Once their makeshift abode is finished, the three young men find themselves masters of their own destiny, alone in the woods. Joe claims himself and Biaggio to be the hunters, while Patrick goes off to gather fruit, etc. Several weeks pass and Patrick and Joe are reported missing and appear on multiple news channels. Frank finds a Monopoly piece from the game night in Joes bookbag that was left on a bus and believes that Joe is taunting him. Conflict arises between Patrick and Joe when Joe invites his crush Kelly (Erin Moriarty) to come see the house they built. After a while, Kelly takes a liking to Patrick and the two begin a relationship. Joe passively confronts Patrick in a Monopoly game by teaming up with Biaggio to trade land and buy hotels in the orange Monopoly in front of Patricks piece, leading him to lose the game on the very next turn. The two get into a scuffle. Joe calls Kelly a "cancer" and a "bitch" who ruined the peace and harmony the three of them were having and eventually makes her walk out of the house in despair. Joe, realizing that Patrick feels bad for Kelly, taunts him to go after her and stomps on his previously broken foot. Patrick leaves the house and goes after Kelly, comforting her with a kiss. Biaggio, who has become good friends with Joe, is told to leave as well, leaving Joe to live by himself. About a month later, Joe is still living alone in the woods. Short on money, he sets out to hunt his own food, eventually leading him to kill and eat a rabbit. Joe, not disposing of the body properly, attracts a snake into the house. Meanwhile, Kelly goes to a concerned Frank and says she can take him to Joe. When they arrive, they find Joe cornered by the presumably venomous snake that appeared the night before. Biaggio asks his father, who is shaving, if you go to Hell for leaving your friend, to which his father replies "Of course." Biaggio comes barging in the makeshift house and attempts to kill the snake with his machete, but is bitten by the snake on the ankle instead and collapses, becoming violently ill. Frank, Kelly and a mildly feral Joe rush Biaggio to the hospital. Joe and Frank reconcile. Biaggio survives and tells Joe that he saw heaven and if he had to do it all over again, he would do the same thing, but then changes his mind. Joe and Patricks parents each drive them home. As they view each other from their respective cars, they flip each other off jokingly and part ways. The film ends showing shots of the house Joe, Patrick, and Biaggio built. After the credits, Biaggio is seen still residing in the house in the woods.
The Kings of Summer
2013