Daniel LaRusso and his mother move from Newark, New Jersey to Reseda, Los Angeles, California. The maintenance man in their new apartment complex is an eccentric, kind and generous Okinawan immigrant named Mr. Miyagi. At a beach party, Daniel meets Ali Mills, a high school cheerleader from Encino. Johnny Lawrence, Alis ex-boyfriend, is the top student of a karate dojo called "Cobra Kai." When Johnny deliberately breaks Alis radio, Daniel attempts to stop him, but is easily overpowered and humiliated by Johnny. Continuously bullied by the Cobra Kai after this, Daniel finds solace with Miyagi. At a Halloween party, Daniel douses Johnny with water; chased and eventually cornered by Johnny and his accomplices, Daniel is savagely beaten until Miyagi intervenes, easily disabling the attackers. Daniel asks Miyagi to teach him to fight. Miyagi refuses, instead agreeing to accompany Daniel to the Cobra Kai dojo to resolve the conflict. They meet with the sensei, John Kreese, an ex-Special Forces Vietnam veteran who teaches his students to be aggressive and merciless against their opponents. He dismisses the peace offering made by Miyagi, so Miyagi proposes that Daniel will enter the Under-18 All-Valley Karate Tournament, where he will compete against the Cobra Kai students, and requests that the bullying cease while Daniel trains. Kreese agrees to the terms, and warns that if Daniel does not appear at the tournament, the harassment will resume on both Daniel and Miyagi. Daniels training starts under the guise of having him complete various lengthy, menial chores that appear to have nothing to do with karate, but which are actually teaching movements of attack and defense. Through Miyagis teaching, Daniel learns the necessity of personal balance, reflected in the principle that martial arts training is not so much about disciplining the body as it is the spirit. At the tournament, Daniel unexpectedly reaches the semi-finals. After Daniel defeats a particularly skilled opponent, Kreese, worried that Daniel might make it to the finals, instructs Bobby Brown -one of his more compassionate students and the least vicious of Daniels tormentors- to disable Daniel with an illegal attack to the knee. Bobby reluctantly does so and is disqualified. Daniel, refusing to concede, convinces Miyagi to use a pain suppression technique so he can continue the tournament. Daniel, barely able to stand, uses a crane technique, allowing him to deliver a blow to Johnnys head using only one leg and wins the tournament. Johnny, having gained respect for his nemesis, gives Daniel his trophy and Daniel is carried off by the enthusiastic crowd.
The Karate Kid (1984 film)
1986