In 1980s Ottumwa, Iowa, Walter Day founds Twin Galaxies, an organization dedicated to tracking high scores in arcade games. The 1981 game Donkey Kong is particularly appreciated by competitive arcade gamers for its difficulty. By the 2000s, Twin Galaxies has grown into a global organization, with Day maintaining close relationships with many high-scoring players. Among these is Billy Mitchell, who set various arcade records throughout the 1980s, including holding Donkey Kongs highest score from 1982 to 2000, and again from 2004. In Redmond, Washington, Steve Wiebe-a laid-off engineer studying to be a teacher- has purchased a Donkey Kong cabinet intent on breaking the world record. Using his mathematical knowledge to identify exploitable patterns in the game, Wiebe achieves a new record of 1,006,600 points – the first ever score over a million. He submits a tape to Twin Galaxies, which propels him to local celebrity in the Seattle area. Mitchell and Twin Galaxies send two referees to investigate Wiebes machine. They learn that the machines circuit board was provided by Roy Shildt, a self-proclaimed fitness guru and pickup artist who claims the high score for Missile Command. Unbeknownst to Wiebe, Shildt and Mitchell have been nemeses for years after Mitchell called Shildts high score into question, causing it to be disqualified by Twin Galaxies. Since then, Shildt has been looking for a way to exact clandestine revenge on Mitchell. Based on this history, Twin Galaxies suspects that Shildt may have tampered with Wiebes board, and does not recognize Wiebes record. To prove his skills, Wiebe travels to a tournament at Funspot in Laconia, New Hampshire, to make a high score attempt for Walter Day and other high-ranking members of Twin Galaxies. Wiebe challenges Mitchell to a Donkey Kong competition, but Mitchell does not attend. In front of a large crowd, Wiebe sets a new high score of 985,600 and reaches the kill screen, ending the game. However, Mitchell sends a low-quality VHS to Funspot depicting himself achieving a higher score of 1,047,200 points. Despite Wiebes protests, Twin Galaxies accepts Mitchells score and proclaims him the record holder once again. Nine months later, Guinness World Records has decided to publish Twin Galaxies records — including Mitchells latest score – and hosts a tournament in Mitchells hometown of Hollywood, Florida. Wiebe flies in with his family to participate. He again challenges Mitchell to public competition; Mitchell eventually attends the tournament, but refuses Wiebes challenge to play. Wiebe fails to surpass the record. Nevertheless, Day, on behalf of Twin Galaxies, finally acknowledges Wiebes integrity and apologizes for how he was treated, and welcomes him to submit taped scores to Twin Galaxies. Later, in his home garage, Wiebe achieves a new record of 1,049,100, which is acknowledged by Twin Galaxies.
The King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters
2007