Captain Bill Tennant (William Powell) is a British officer stationed in Dublin in 1920. Tennant has a history with Norah, the wife of his friend, British intelligence officer Captain Andrew Kerr. Tennants first assignment is to capture a notorious Sinn Féin member, Peadar Conlan. His first attempt is a failure, and Kerr is ordered to relieve Tennant overnight. Norah is frightened by his assignment and begs him not to go. After Kerr leaves, we see a flashback to when Tennant and Norah were involved, several years before. Kerr leads the search for Conlan. He finds and captures him. When he arrives home very late, Norah is still up, and still dressed. Tennant is also there and insists they must tell Kerr. Tennant leaves and Norah tries to explain that there was always someone else between them, and that someone was Tennant. Kerr rushes out, despite her pleadings that hell be killed. Tennant sees him leave and goes after him. Conlan is sentenced to hang by the British military. Shortly after, Kerr is spotted and followed. Hes captured by an angry mob. When Tennant arrives at the military post the next morning, he finds Norah waiting there for news of her husband. She tells him that she no longer loves him, that hes "three years too late". A messenger arrives from Sinn Féin. He claims to be a peacemaker, and tells the general Kerr will be released if Conlan is. But the general tells him Conlan will be hanged at 6:00 a.m. the next morning. Norah begs the general to comply, but the general refuses. Tennant tries to bargain for Kerrs life, but is told nothing will do except the release of Conlan. He returns to HQ and, against orders, goes into the generals office, breaks into his desk, and forges a release for Conlan. Kerr is also released. The next morning the crowd celebrates Conlans release. Tennants forgery is discovered, and Kerr is distressed to find his friend has committed career suicide to free him. In their final meeting, Tennant tells Kerr that Norahs seeing Tennant again, coupled with Kerrs disappearance, has caused the scales to fall from her eyes, and caused her to realize she really loves her husband.
The Key (1934 film)
1934