An Englishman named Wilson travels to Los Angeles to investigate the death of his daughter, Jenny. She reportedly had died in a car accident, but Wilson suspects she was murdered. Recently released from a British prison, he is a hardened man. Arriving in Los Angeles, he meets Jennys friends Eduardo and Elaine and questions them. Finding they pass his initial inquiry, he elicits their help in investigating Jennys death. One suspect that emerges is Jennys boyfriend, a record producer named Terry Valentine. Investigating him it is learned that besides his legitimate record company business, Valentine has involvement in drug trafficking. His involvement is managed through his security consultant, Avery. Wilson locates a warehouse used by the drug trafficker, and questions the men there. Laughing at him, they beat him, insult his daughter, and throw him out onto the street. Undeterred, Wilson draws a hidden pistol and returns to the warehouse, shooting dead all but one of the employees. As the survivor flees, Wilson shouts after him "Tell him... Im coming!" Back with Elaine and Eduardo, Wilson reminisces about his earlier life with his daughter, whom he remembers only as a child. Worried her father would be sent away to prison, she would threaten to call the police whenever she found evidence of the crimes he was involved in. He recalls she never followed through on her threats, because she loved him and it became a sad joke between them. However, his life of crime put a strain on his family. He ended up in prison after the men he was involved with sold him out to the police. Seeking more information from Valentine, Wilson and Eduardo sneak into a party held at Valentines house. Once there Wilson searches for evidence of Valentines involvement. He finds and steals a picture of Jenny. Attracting suspicion from Avery, Wilson is accosted by a guard whom he swiftly head-butts and throws over a railing to his death. Wilson and Eduardo then flee, but are chased by Avery, who rams their car. Wilson rams Averys car in return, forcing it over a cliff. He and Eduardo escape, but not before Avery hears Eduardo call out Wilsons name. Avery hires a hit-man, Stacy, to track down and kill Wilson and Elaine. Avery is prevented from making the hit by agents of the DEA, who have been monitoring Valentine as part of a drug investigation. Wilson and Elaine are taken to meet a DEA investigator. The head agent makes it clear the DEA is after the dealer who used Valentine to launder money, and the agents will not interfere with Wilsons personal mission. He lets Wilson see their file on Valentine, including a photograph and address of a second home in Big Sur. Meanwhile, Stacy and his partner, angry at their beating by the DEA agents, plot to double cross Avery. Avery moves Valentine to the house in Big Sur, not knowing Wilson has the address. That night Wilson enters the grounds. Averys guards shoot an intruder, but it turns out the man killed is Stacy. Avery and the guards then engage in a shootout with Stacys partner, resulting in several deaths, including Avery. Valentine flees to the beach, with Wilson in pursuit. Falling and breaking his ankle, Valentine cannot escape, and begs for his life. He says Jenny had found out about his drug ties and threatened to call the police. During his attempt to stop her, she fell and broke her neck. To deflect attention from Valentine, Avery staged the car accident. Wilson knows Jenny would never have turned Valentine in. He turns away, allowing Valentine to live. Wilson makes his farewells to Elaine and Eduardo, and returns to London.
The Limey
1999