During the French and Indian War, Alice (Binnie Barnes) and Cora Munro (Heather Angel), the two daughters of Colonel Munro (Hugh Buckler), commander of a British fort, set out from Albany to join their father. They are escorted by Major Duncan Heyward (Henry Wilcoxon), who has loved Alice for a long time, and by the Huron Indian Magua (Bruce Cabot). Magua is secretly an enemy of the British. Magua betrays them, but they are rescued by a colonial scout named Hawkeye (Randolph Scott) and his friends, the last two members of the Mohican tribe, Chingachgook (Robert Barrat) and his son Uncas (Phillip Reed). On their way to the fort, Uncas falls in love with Cora, while Hawkeye and Alice are attracted to each other. The fort is besieged by the French, under General Montcalm (William Stack), and their Indian allies. Hawkeye sneaks out at night and overhears Maguas treacherous plans to raid the unprotected colonial settlements. Colonel Munro refuses to accept Hawkeyes unsupported word, and forbids the colonials to leave to protect their loved ones. Hawkeye arranges for the men to depart, but remains behind. Munro has no choice but to pronounce a death sentence on him for his actions. Magua incites his men to attack the fort to forestall an agreement between Montcalm and Munro that would allow the British to surrender the fort peacefully in exchange for their lives. Before Montcalm can stop the fighting, Munro is fatally wounded and his daughters are carried off by Magua and a small band of his supporters. Magua tells the women that Cora will become his squaw, and Alice will be burned alive. Hawkeye and his friends break out of the stockade and set out in pursuit, as does Heyward. When they reach a stream, they are forced to split up. Hawkeye and Chingachgook search downstream, Heyward and Uncas upstream. Uncas picks up the trail and, unwilling to wait for the others, hurries ahead by himself. He manages to free Cora, but they are trapped on top of a cliff. Uncas kills one man, but Magua sends him plummeting to the bottom of the cliff. Rather than becoming Maguas woman, Cora chooses to jump to her death. The dying Uncas drags himself over to her lifeless body and takes her hand in his before succumbing. Chingachgook arrives and challenges Magua to fight one-on-one. Hawkeye prevents Heyward from interfering. Chinachgook drowns Magua in the river. Meanwhile, Alice is taken to a large enemy settlement to be burned at the stake. Hawkeye sends Chingachgook to stand guard, then tells Heyward that Hawkeye must offer himself in exchange for Alice. Heyward offers to sacrifice himself, but Hawkeye tells him that the Indians would not trade Alice for a British officer they do not know. It must be an enemy warrior they respect highly, and Hawkeye meets that description. Heyward knocks out Hawkeye and takes his clothes, because the enemy does not know what Hawkeye looks like. Heyward enters the armed camp and bargains for Alices release. Hawkeye awakens and follows him. Faced with two men claiming to be Hawkeye, the enemy chief decides the winner of a shooting contest must be the real one, and he is proved right. Before she leaves, Alice kisses Hawkeye. Then he is tied to a stake and the wood around him set on fire. Alice and the others encounter a British relief force led by General Abercrombie. They storm the camp and free Hawkeye. Hawkeye faces a court-martial, but Heyward has the charges dismissed. Hawkeye enlists in the British Army and sets out with them to attack Canada. Alice tells him she will be waiting for him at Albany.
The Last of the Mohicans (1936 film)
1936