The story is set in London, England. Princess Sonia (played by Glaum) and her husband, exiled Russian nobleman Prince Victor (played by Stevens), are at an auction. She is bidding against him in an effort to obtain a Corot landscape that has incriminating letters she wrote hidden inside. The painting is purchased by Michael Lanyard (played by Grassby), who is suspected of being the mysterious international thief the "Lone Wolf". Lanyard gives the letters to Princess Sonia. She then divorces Prince Victor and marries Lanyard. With malevolent hatred, Victor threatens to follow Lanyard "to the very gates of Hell". Lanyard replies, "If you do, then Ill push you inside." Princess Sonia dies after giving birth to their daughter, Sonia. Lanyard is unaware that he has a daughter. Years later, Sonia (also played by Glaum) has grown up not knowing of her parentage or past. She thinks she is the daughter of Princess Sonias maid. Sonia is found by Prince Victor, who is now the leader of an underworld gang of Oriental criminals and Bolsheviks. Telling her that he is her father, he brings her to his home in the hope it will entice Lanyard to make an appearance. She falls in love with Roger Karslake (played by Holding), who is Victors secretary. When Sonia learns of the gangs diabolical plan to have poisonous gas pumped into the Houses of Parliament, the homes of Downing Street and of the nobility, even Buckingham Palace, in order to clear the way for Victor to become Englands dictator, she tells Karslake. Unbeknownst to Sonia or the gang, Lanyard has actually been working in the household, posing as Victors Oriental butler, and he and Karslake are both Scotland Yard agents. Lanyard learns that she is, in fact, his daughter. Following Sonias recognition of her father, the Lone Wolf, he and Karslake capture the gang amidst a blazing house fire and a huge fight. Victor makes his way to the roof pursued by Lanyard, who shoves the evil prince down into the flames.
The Lone Wolf's Daughter (1919 film)
1919