Former US Army Captain Nathan Algren, a bitter alcoholic traumatized by the atrocities he committed during the American Indian Wars, is approached by his former commanding officer Colonel Bagley to train the newly created Imperial Japanese Army for Japanese businessman Omura, who intends to use the army to suppress a samurai-headed rebellion against Japans new Emperor. Despite his hatred of Bagley for his role in the Indian Wars, an impoverished Algren takes the job for the money, and is accompanied to Japan by his old friend, Sergeant Zebulon Gant. Upon arriving, Algren meets Simon Graham, a British translator knowledgeable about the Samurai. Algren finds the Imperial soldiers are actually conscripted peasants that have no knowledge of firearms or battle. Early in their training, Algren is informed that the Samurai are attacking one of Omuras railroads; Omura sends the army there, despite Algren’s protests that they are not ready. The battle is a disaster; the conscripts are routed and Gant is killed. Algren fights to the last before he is surrounded; expecting to die, he is taken prisoner when Samurai leader Katsumoto decides to spare him. Algren is taken to Katsumotos village to live among his family. While he is poorly treated by the Samurai at first, he eventually gains their respect and actually becomes friends with Katsumoto. Algren overcomes his alcoholism and guilt, and learns the Japanese language and culture. He develops sympathy for the Samurai, who are angry that the spread of modern technology has eroded traditional feudalism and the status and power of the Samurai. Algren develops an unspoken affection for Taka, Katsumotos sister and the widow of a Samurai Algren killed. One night, as the village is watching a kabuki play, a group of ninja infiltrate the village and attempt to assassinate Katsumoto. Algren warns Katsumoto, saving his life, and then helps defend the village with the Samurai. Katsumoto requests a meeting with Emperor Meiji and is given safe passage to Tokyo. He brings Algren, intending to release him. Upon arriving in Tokyo, Algren finds the Imperial Army is now a well-trained and fully equipped fighting force. Katsumoto, to his dismay, discovers that the young and inexperienced Emperor has essentially become a puppet of Omura. At a government meeting, Omura orders Katsumotos arrest for carrying a sword in public and asks him to commit seppuku to redeem his honor. Algren refuses Omuras offer to lead the new army to crush the rebels; Omura orders him killed as well by sending assassins to kill Algren, but Algren kills the assailants. Algren assists the Samurai in freeing Katsumoto from the Imperial Army; in the process, Katsumotos son Nobutada is mortally wounded, and he sacrifices himself to allow the others to escape. As the Imperial Army marches to crush the rebellion, a grieving Katsumoto contemplates seppuku, but Algren convinces him to fight until the end, and joins the Samurai in battle. Citing the Battle of Thermopylae, the Samurai use the Imperial Armys overconfidence to lure their soldiers into a trap and deprive them of artillery support. The ensuing mêlée battle inflicts massive casualties on both sides and forces the Imperial soldiers to retreat. Knowing that Imperial reinforcements are coming and defeat is inevitable, Katsumoto orders a suicidal charge on horseback. During the charge, the Samurai break through Bagleys line; Algren kills Bagley, but they are quickly mowed down by gatling guns. The Imperial captain, previously trained by Algren and horrified by the sight of the dying Samurai, orders all of the guns to cease fire, disregarding Omuras orders. A mortally wounded Katsumoto commits seppuku with Algrens help as the soldiers at the scene kneel down in respect for the fallen Samurai. Days later, as trade negotiations conclude, Algren, though injured, arrives and interrupts the proceedings. He presents the Emperor with Katsumotos sword and asks him to remember the traditions for which Katsumoto died. The Emperor realizes that while Japan should modernize and continue to interact with other countries, it cannot forget its own culture and history. He rejects the trade offer with Omura protesting the decision; the Emperor chooses to seize the Omura family assets and distribute them to the poor. Algrens fate is shrouded in mystery; while various rumors about him circulate, Graham concludes that Algren had finally found peace in his life and returned to the village to reunite with Taka.
The Last Samurai
2003