Behind-the-scenes network politics embroil television executives responsible for late-night programming after 1991s retirement announcement of Johnny Carson from The Tonight Show on NBC. Carsons permanent guest host Jay Leno and the host of the show that follows Carsons each night, David Letterman, both vie for the position. It is widely assumed that Letterman is the hand-picked heir apparent Carson favors, but privately NBC executives speculate that Leno could be more popular with 11:30 p.m. audiences, as well as easier for the network to deal with and control. Lenos tough manager Helen Kushnick secures the spot for Leno with negotiating tactics that could be construed as either shrewd or unethical. Leno is concerned that her methods might alienate Carson but does not wish to be disloyal, as he believes Kushnick to be responsible for his success and had promised to take care of her after her husbands death. She harshly instructs the comic to just keep telling jokes and leave the business end to her. Surely enough, she lands Leno the coveted job as Tonight Show host and the producers position for herself, on the condition that no public announcement will be made. Letterman continues to believe he is still in contention for the position. Another reason NBCs executives prefer Leno is that they will own the show, whereas Letterman stipulates that he will maintain ownership rights to his. Kushnicks bullying manner angers Lenos bosses, colleagues, potential guests, and others to the point of interfering with network airtime and relationships. The top NBC executives warn the mild-mannered Leno that they are going to fire Kushnick and, if he sides with her, he would be let go as well. Kushnick is dismissed by NBC and barred from the studio lot. She keeps pleading with Leno to keep his promise to take care of her and her daughter, but he is angry because she nearly cost him a dream job. Leno eavesdrops on a private executive meeting in which they discuss the possibility of having Letterman step in as host. Letterman, devastated at being passed over, hires Hollywood superagent Michael Ovitz to negotiate on his behalf after Ovitz makes the dramatic promise that not only will he ensure Letterman is offered an 11:30 p.m. show, he will be offered it by every network. True to Ovitzs word, Letterman is courted by all the major networks and syndicates. He continues to hold on to his lifelong dream of hosting The Tonight Show, but Tonight Show/Late Show producer Peter Lassally makes it clear that the Tonight job is now "damaged goods" and that he would be working with the very people who passed him by, who may also double cross him and retain Leno if he can make the show a hit before Letterman takes over. Letterman is still unconvinced, so Lassally suggests he call Carson to ask for advice. Letterman asks Carson what he would do in the same situation, and after Carson says he would probably leave NBC, Letterman accepts a lucrative offer to host his own 11:30 show on CBS. Letterman and Leno ultimately go head to head at 11:30, with Letterman winning in the TV ratings in the beginning, then Leno firmly re-establishing his shows lead in the ratings.
The Late Shift (film)
1996