Mari Collingwood plans to attend a concert with her friend, Phyllis Stone, for her seventeenth birthday. Her parents, Estelle and John, express their concern about the band and her friendship with Phyllis, but let her go and give her a peace symbol necklace. Phyllis and Mari head into the city for the concert. On the way, they hear a news report on the car radio of a recent prison escape involving criminals Krug Stillo, a sadistic rapist and serial killer; his heroin-addicted son, Junior; Sadie, a promiscuous psychopath and sadist; and Fred "Weasel" Podowski, a child molester, peeping Tom, and murderer. Before the concert, Mari and Phyllis encounter Junior when trying to buy marijuana. He leads them to an apartment where they are trapped by the criminals. Phyllis tries to escape and tries to reason with them, but she fails and is gang-raped by Krug, Weasel and Sadie. Meanwhile, Maris unsuspecting parents prepare a surprise party for her. The next morning, Mari and Phyllis are bound, gagged and put in the trunk of their car and transported to the woods by the criminals. Mari recognizes that the road is near her home with a look of horror. Mari and Phyllis are forced to perform sexual acts on each other and Sadie attempts to perform oral sex on a weeping Mari. Phyllis distracts the kidnappers to give Mari an opportunity to escape but is chased by Sadie and Weasel, while Junior stays behind to guard Mari. Mari tries gaining Juniors trust by giving him her necklace and instead names him "Willow". Phyllis stumbles across a cemetery in the woods where she is cornered by Krug with a machete and stabbed in the back by Weasel. After they take turns kicking her, she crawls to a nearby tree and is stabbed by Weasel and Sadie multiple times. As she dies, Sadie reaches into one of her wounds and pulls out her intestines. Mari convinces Junior to let her go, but her escape is halted by Krug. Sadie and Weasel present Phylliss severed hand as Mari screams in horror. Krug carves his name into her chest, then rapes her. She vomits, quietly says a prayer and walks into a nearby lake to clean herself, but Krug fatally shoots her, leaving her body floating in the lake. Krug, Sadie and Weasel clean up and change out of their bloody clothes. In their new attire, the gang goes to the Collingwoods home, masquerading as travelling salesmen. Maris parents let them stay overnight, but Junior exposes their identity and orders them to leave. Later that night Junior, in the midst of a heroin withdrawal, is heaving in the bathroom; Estelle enters to check on him. She gasps as she sees that he is wearing Maris peace symbol necklace. She eavesdrops while the gang is spending the night in Maris bedroom and finds blood-soaked clothing in their luggage. She and her husband rush into the woods where they find Maris body on the bank of the lake. They carry Maris body back to the house and exact revenge against the crooks. Estelle seduces Weasel and performs fellatio on him that turns deadly when she bites off his penis and leaves him to bleed to death. Maris father John takes his shotgun into the room where two of the criminals are asleep and shoots at them. Krug escapes into the living room and overpowers John, before being confronted by Junior, brandishing a revolver and threatening to kill him. Krug manipulates Junior into committing suicide by shooting himself. Krug is incapacitated by an electrocution booby-trap set earlier by John. Sadie rushes outside where she is tackled by Estelle, but she escapes and falls into the backyard swimming pool where Estelle slits her throat with a knife. The sheriff arrives just as John kills Krug with a chainsaw. The deputy then brings Estelle into the living room before removing the chainsaw from Johns hands.
The Last House on the Left (1972 film)
2009