The Lightning Thief is narrated in the first person past tense by Percy Jackson, a twelve-year-old diagnosed with dyslexia and ADHD. On a school trip to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, one of the chaperones, Mrs. Dodds, turns into a Fury and attacks him. The other, Mr. Brunner, lends Percy a magical sword-pen to defeat her. After school lets out, Percy goes on a trip to Long Island with his mother, Sally. In the middle of the first night, Percys friend Grover, who is actually a satyr, tells them they are in danger, and the three drive to a mysterious summer camp. The Minotaur attacks them, grabs Mrs. Jackson, and causes her to disappear in a blinding flash of gold light. Believing his mother has died, Percy kills the beast with one of its own horns, then drags the unconscious Grover into the camp. Percy wakes up three days later and learns the camp is called Camp Half-Blood and that he is a demigod: the son of a human and a Greek god. He settles into camp life and meets several other demigods, including Luke Castellan and Annabeth Chase. After a hellhound attacks him during a game of Capture the Flag, Percy is claimed by his father, the god Poseidon. The activities director Chiron explains to Percy how the three eldest male gods—Poseidon, Zeus, and Hades—swore an oath not to have children more than 70 years ago; Percy represents a violation of that oath. This, coupled with the fact that Zeuss master lightning bolt has recently been stolen, has bred much suspicion between the gods. Percy is tasked with locating that bolt before an all-out war can break out. He chooses Annabeth and Grover to accompany him on a quest to the realm of Hades, the most likely culprit. Before he leaves, Percy is given Chirons magic sword Anaklusmos ("Riptide") and Lukes flying sneakers. The trio then travels towards Los Angeles, the entrance to Hadess realm. Along the way, they are attacked by the Furies, Medusa, Echidna and the Chimera, and several other monsters. They also do a favor for the god Ares, who gives them a backpack full of supplies and transportation to Nevada. Percy gradually learns more about his companions, his powers, and the world of the Greek gods. When they arrive in Hadess realm, Grover is nearly dragged into Tartarus by Percys flying shoes. The battered group finally meet Hades, who reveals that his Helm of Darkness has been stolen too. Hades accuses Percy of stealing his helm and threatens to kill Sally Jackson (who has been the gods hostage the whole time) and reanimate the dead unless it is returned. When Percy finds the missing master bolt inside Aress backpack, the group realizes theyve been manipulated. Narrowly escaping the Underworld, Percy challenges Ares to a duel. When the demigod wins, he gives the Helm of Darkness to the Furies; when Hades then realizes that Percy was not the thief, he returns Mrs. Jackson to their apartment in New York. Percy takes the master bolt back to Zeus, who rewards the young hero by not killing him as his laws recommend. Percy returns to camp a hero and enjoys the rest of his summer there. On the last day of camp, however, he goes into the woods with Luke, who reveals himself to be the real thief of the Helm and bolt, following the orders of Kronos. Kronos also manipulated power-hungry Ares into taking part in the scheme. Percy cannot believe that Luke would do such a thing, and so Luke explains his belief that the gods are irresponsible and poor leaders who must be overthrown. He offers Percy the chance to join him, and when the other demigod does not, tries to kill him with a venomous scorpion. Percy manages to kill the arachnid, but is badly poisoned. When he has recovered, Percy is given the choice of whether to return home for the school year or stay at camp year round. After much thought he decides to spend the school year with his mother (who is no longer with Gabe after petrifing him with Medusas head) even though it will be more dangerous for him with Luke and Kronos on the loose. Grover and Annabeth also leave the camp for the year, but promise to keep in touch with Percy.
The Lightning Thief
2010