After awakening from a dream of Gandalf the Grey battling the Balrog, Frodo Baggins and his friend Samwise Gamgee continue their journey to Mordor to destroy the One Ring by casting it into Mount Doom. They are attacked in the night by Gollum, former owner of the Ring, but they capture him. Sympathizing with Gollum for what he perceives as their shared burden, Frodo asks Gollum to lead them safely to Mordor, despite Sam’s objections. Meanwhile, Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli pursue the Uruk-hai who kidnapped their friends Merry and Pippin. The Uruk-hai are slaughtered by the Rohirrim, the army of the kingdom of Rohan, but the two Hobbits escape into Fangorn Forest, where they meet the Ent Treebeard. Aragorn’s group later meets the Rohirrim, who have been banished by their king Théoden, who is being manipulated by Saruman’s servant Grima Wormtongue. While tracking down the Hobbits in Fangorn, Aragorn’s group encounters a resurrected Gandalf, who perished in Moria, but was revived to help save Middle-earth. Gollum leads Frodo and Sam through the Dead Marshes while evading the Nazgûl. They reach the Black Gate to Mordor, but Gollum, finding himself becoming loyal to Frodo for his kindness, stops them from approaching, stating that its too risky and that there is another entrance. Frodo and Sam are later captured by the Rangers of Ithilien, led by Faramir, brother of the late Boromir. When Faramir discovers that Frodo has the Ring, he intends to take him to Gondor. Faramir also captures Gollum when Frodo exposes him. Aragorn, Gandalf, Legolas, and Gimli travel to Rohan’s capital of Edoras, where Gandalf releases Théoden from Saruman’s influence, and Wormtongue is banished. After learning about Sarumans plans to wipe out Rohan with an army of Uruk-hai, Théoden decides to move his citizens to Helms Deep, an ancient fortress that has provided refuge to Rohans people in times past, while Gandalf departs to acquire the aid of the Rohirrim led by Théodens nephew, Éomer. Aragorn builds a friendship with Théoden’s niece, Éowyn, who quickly becomes infatuated with him. During a Warg attack, Aragorn falls off a cliff into a river, but is found by his horse Brego and taken to Helm’s Deep. In Fangorn, Merry and Pippin attend an Ent council, where they learn that Treebeard and the others will not participate in the war. They convince them otherwise after showing them the destruction Saruman has unleashed on the forests around Isengard. The Ents storm Isengard and release the dam placed upon the nearby river, which gushes into Isengard, drowning the Uruk-hai, quenching the fires of its industry, and stranding Saruman in his tower. The Uruk-hai army arrives at Helm’s Deep, finding a makeshift army of civilians and Elves from Lothlórien waiting for them. A battle follows, and after the Uruk-hai breach the walls of the fortress, Théoden loses hope until Aragorn convinces him to ride out and meet them. Gandalf and the Rohirrim arrive, turning the tide of the battle and destroying the Uruk-hai. Gandalf however, warns that Saurons retaliation for this defeat will be terrible and swift. Frodo, Sam, and Gollum are taken to the Gondorian city of Osgiliath, which is under assault from Mordors army, commanded by one of the Nazgûl. Sam informs Faramir of how the Ring drove Boromir mad, stunning Faramir. Frodo is nearly captured by the Nazgûl, but Faramir drives the creature off and Sam tackles him down a flight of stairs, saving him. After the attack ends, Faramir frees the trio and sends them on their way. Gollum, hurt by Frodo’s apparent betrayal, decides to reclaim the Ring by leading Frodo and Sam to a creature he refers to as “Her” on the way to Mordor.
The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers
2003