An international drug-smuggling racket plants heroin on unsuspecting American tourists traveling in Asia, so that the dope can pass through customs undetected. Two psychopathic killers (Eli Wallach and Robert Keith) and their driver (Richard Jaeckel) then collect the contraband, murdering several people along the way. Lt. Ben Guthrie leads the police hunt for the criminals. The head of the heroin ring is a person known only as "The Man" ( Vaughn Taylor) The story begins when an American tourist disembarking in San Francisco from a cruise ship returning from China has his bag stolen by a cabbie. As the cabbie takes off at high speed, he strikes and kills a police officer. The cab later crashes and the cabbie is killed. A police investigation discloses that the cab driver is a heroin addict, and attention is drawn to a heroin smuggling ring. Eli Wallach and Robert Keith have instructions to retrieve the heroin from the unsuspecting tourists and deliver it to a drop point at Sutros Museum (a real San Francisco location until it burned down in 1966) where the bag containing the heroin is to be left inside an antique ships binnacle. Eli Wallach and Robert Keith are instructed that they must make the drop and be gone before 4:05 PM. But when it turns out that one of the tourists -- a young woman with a little girl -- has unknowingly disposed of the heroin, Wallach and Keith are in a bind: if they drop off the bag with a large portion of the heroin missing, their lives may be in danger. Wallach decides that instead of leaving the bag and departing the premises by 4:05, he will stay, meet The Man and explain why the shipment is short. Wallach and Keith also kidnap the woman and her child and bring them to Sutros so they can back up the story. But when Wallach meets The Man and explains himself, The Man has an unexpected reaction: he tells Wallach that "nobody ever sees me," and that because Wallach has seen him, "youre dead." The Man slaps Wallach across the face and Wallach, enraged, pushes The Man off a balcony, killing him. Meanwhile the San Francisco police have spotted the getaway car with Keith, the driver, and the kidnapped woman and child. When Wallach exits Sutros, a high speed car chase ensues, filmed in the area of The Embarcadero. When the car becomes trapped at a barrier on the freeway which was under construction, there is a shootout between Wallach and the police.
The Lineup (film)
1958