In Portland, Oregon, in the near future, George Orr is charged with misuse of multiple prescription medications, which he was taking to keep himself from dreaming; he volunteers for psychiatric care to avoid prosecution, and is assigned to the care of licensed oneirologist William Haber. Orrs explanation of his drug abuse is incredible: he has known since age 17 that his dreams change reality, and tries to prevent himself from dreaming because he fears their effects. Haber initially considers Orrs fear as a delusional symptom of neurosis or psychosis, referring to him as "possibly an intelligent schizophrenic". He puts Orr into a hypnotic trance, and encourages him to have an "effective dream" to record his brain function. When he realizes Orr is telling the truth, Haber begins to use Orrs "effective dreams" to first create a prestigious, well-funded institute run by himself, then to attempt to solve various social problems. These solutions unravel quickly: Haber suggests that Orr dream of a solution to overpopulation (resulting in a plague wiping out three-fourths of the human population), the end to all conflict on Earth (resulting in an alien invasion uniting mankind), and an end to racism (resulting in a world where everyones skin becomes a uniform shade of gray). Only after numerous failed attempts to "make the world right", Haber admits to Orr he believes in Orrs power. Having analyzed Orrs supremely complex dreaming brainwaves, Haber begins creating a machine that will similarly enhance his own and allow him to remake reality directly. Orr turns to lawyer Heather LeLache for help in getting out of his government-mandated treatments with Haber. LeLache doubts Orrs sanity, but agrees to help him, eventually becoming an ally. As Haber continues to use Orr to create change in human society, Orr remembers a dream he experienced years ago, which is briefly portrayed at the opening of the film (and which, it turns out, is in fact reality): the world was destroyed in a nuclear war, and Orr had been dying from radiation poisoning. In his dying moments, Orr dreams a world where the war did not happen, resulting in the events of the film as we saw them. Haber enters the final version of his machine for directing dreams, and learns this truth, driving him mad. Orr had joined him in the dream state, and was able to change the world back to a relatively normal version - not destroyed, and not severely altered. The end of the film shows Orr working in an antique store run by an alien, with LeLache coming in to browse. She has no memory of him, but agrees to have lunch with him. They encounter Haber, wheelchair bound, on their way to lunch, and Haber recognizes Orr, but cannot come out of his catatonia.
The Lathe of Heaven (film)
1980