In the Pride Lands of Africa, a lion rules over the animal kingdom from Pride Rock. King Simbas newborn daughter, Kiara, is presented to the assembled animals by Rafiki the baboon who serves as shaman and advisor. Simba assigns his royal advisors, the meerkat Timon and the warthog Pumbaa, to follow Kiara. After entering the forbidden "Outlands," Kiara meets a young cub, Kovu, and they escape from crocodiles while befriending each other. However, Simba and Zira, Kovus mother and the Outsiders leader, rescue the cubs. Before she leaves, Zira reminds Simba that Kovu was selected to become Scars successor. Returning to the Pride Lands, Simba lectures Kiara about the danger posed by the Outsiders and tells her about the prides responsibilities. In the Outlands, Zira reminds Kovu that Simba killed Scar and exiled the lionesses who respected him. Kovu explains that he does not think it is so bad to have Kiara as a friend, but Zira realizes she can use Kovus friendship with Kiara to exact revenge on Simba. Now a young adult, Kiara begins her first solo hunt. However, Simba has Timon and Pumbaa follow her in secret, which leads her to hunt away from the Pride Lands. On Ziras orders, Kovus siblings Nuka and Vitani trap Kiara in a fire, allowing Kovu to rescue her. Simba is forced to accept Kovu afterwards. The next day, Kovu contemplates attacking Simba, but he teaches Kiara how to hunt instead and eventually realizes his feelings for her. Later, Kiara and Kovu stargaze where they talk about the Great Kings of the Past and Kovu wonders if there is a darkness in him like there was in Scar, despite not being his biological son. Kovu attempts to reveal his mission to Kiara, but Rafiki interrupts and leads them to the jungle, where he introduces them to "upendi" (an erroneous form of upendo, which means "love" in Swahili). The two lions fall in love. That night, Simba allows Kovu to live in Pride Rock with the rest of the pride. Realizing that Kovu has failed to kill Simba, Zira sets a trap for him. Simba takes him around the Pride Lands and tells him the truth about Scar. However, the Outsiders attack Simba, resulting in Nukas death and Simbas escape. Zira scratches Kovu for his brothers death, causing him to turn on her. Kovu returns to Pride Rock to plead Simba for his forgiveness but is exiled. Kiara makes Simba realize that he is acting irrationally, and flees to find Kovu. The two lions later find each other and profess their love. Realizing that they must reunite the two prides, Kiara and Kovu return to the Pride Lands and convince them to stop fighting. However, Zira attempts to kill Simba but Kiara rescues him and they end up hanging perilously to a cliffs edge. Zira refuses Kiaras assistance, instead falling to her death. With his enemy gone, Simba accepts the Outsiders back into the Pride Lands, and appoints Kovu and Kiara as his successors.
The Lion King II: Simba's Pride
1998