Billie Jean Davy, a teenager in Corpus Christi, Texas, rides with her younger brother, Binx on his Honda Elite 80 to a local lake to go swimming. At a drive-in, Hubie Pyatt, a rowdy local teen, and his friends hit on Billie Jean, but Binx humiliates him by throwing a milkshake in his face. Later, as Billie Jean tells Binx about the weather in Vermont, a place he has always wanted to visit, Hubie steals Binxs scooter. As Binx goes to retrieve his scooter later that night, Billie Jean goes to the police with her friends Putter and Ophelia. Detective Ringwald is sympathetic, but urges them to wait the problem out. When Billie Jean returns home, she finds Binx beaten, and his scooter severely damaged. The next day, Billie Jean, Binx, and Ophelia go to Mr. Pyatts shop to get the money to repair the scooter. While initially appearing helpful and understanding, Mr. Pyatt then propositions Billie Jean and then attempts to rape her. Meanwhile, Binx has found a gun, and when Billie Jean flees from the back of the store, clearly distressed, he turns it on Mr. Pyatt. Mr. Pyatt tells him the gun is unloaded, but Binx fires it, wounding Mr Pyatt in the shoulder. They race away from the shop and become fugitives. By the time Detective Ringwald realizes that he made a mistake in not listening to Billie Jean, the situation is spinning out of control. Billie Jean wants only the money to fix her brothers scooter and an apology from Mr. Pyatt. With help from Lloyd Muldaur, the teenage son of the district attorney, who voluntarily becomes her "hostage," Billie Jean makes a video of her demands, featuring herself with her long, blond hair chopped into a crew cut. As media coverage increases, Billie Jean becomes a teen icon, and young fans follow her every movement. Facing uncertain dangers, both physical and legal, Billie Jean is forced to turn her friends Putter and Ophelia in to the police for their safety. When Ringwald arrives and demands to know where Billie Jean is, Ophelia defiantly replies, "Everywhere!" Mr. Pyatt issues a bounty for her apprehension, and Billie Jean realizes the best plan is to turn herself in. To avoid attracting too much attention, she and her brother Binx both arrive in disguise. But the disguise is blown, and the situation descends into a riot, which results in Binx getting shot. As Binx is taken away in an ambulance, Billie Jean confronts Mr. Pyatt and gets him to admit his actions that led to him being shot. The onlookers (including Hubie), seeing how Billie Jean was exploited and their indirect involvement in it, destroy all the Billie Jean merchandise and leave in disgust. Later, Billie Jean and Binx are in Vermont seeking a fresh start. Binx, after complaining about the cold, admires a red snowmobile.
The Legend of Billie Jean
1985