In "a New England city", Frank Skeffington (Spencer Tracy) plans to run for a fifth term. Skeffington rose from poverty in an Irish ghetto to become mayor and former governor, and is skilled at using the power of his office and an enormous political machine of ward heelers to receive support from his Irish Catholic base and other demographics. Rumors of graft and abuse of power are widespread, however, and the Protestant bishop, newspaper publisher Amos Force (John Carradine), banker Norman Cass (Basil Rathbone), and other members of the citys traditional elite the Irish Catholics replaced oppose Skeffington; so do the Catholic cardinal (Donald Crisp), Skeffingtons childhood friend, and other Catholics. Skeffingtons opponents support the candidacy of Kevin McCluskey (Charles B. Fitzsimons), a young Catholic lawyer and war veteran with no political experience. Adam Caulfield (Jeffrey Hunter) is a sportswriter for Forces newspaper. His father-in-law, Roger Sugrue (Willis Bouchey), is among those who oppose Skeffington, Caulfields uncle. The mayor invites Caulfield to observe in person what will be his last election, his "last hurrah", to document urban politics before radio and television fully changes campaigning. Skeffington prefers old-fashioned, hands-on politics, and attends numerous rallies, luncheons, dinners, and speeches. His influence is such that when Skeffington attends an unpopular old friends wake, hundreds rush to be present. Disgusted at how the wake becomes another political event, Caulfield leaves; one of the mayors men explains to him, however, that Skeffington attended to attract mourners to cheer the widow, to whom Skeffington has secretly donated $1,000. After Casss bank turns down a loan for the city to build a housing development, Skeffington invades the exclusive Plymouth Club to confront him, Force, the bishop, and other members of the elite. The mayor threatens to publicly embarrass Casss family by appointing his unintelligent son as fire commissioner. The banker is forced to approve the loan, but vows to contribute large amounts of money to defeat Skeffington. McCluskeys campaign arranges for a series of television advertisements, but his ineptness disappoints both the cardinal and bishop. On election night Skeffingtons men expect another victory, but McCluskey unexpectedly defeats the incumbent and his machine. As his men argue over why their usual tactics involving large amounts of "money" failed, Skeffington chastises them as if he were unaware of their actions. The mayor confidently states on television that he will run for governor but suffers a heart attack that night, and a large crowd comes to pay respect to the invalid. After Skeffingtons last confession, the cardinal, Caulfield, Sugrue, and the mayors men are at his bedside. When Sugrue suggests that the patient would relive his life differently, Skeffington regains consciousness enough to reply "Like Hell I would" before dying.
The Last Hurrah (1958 film)
1958