The fabled city of Dzamm in Africa is rumoured to be a land of wealth. Looking to exploit its rich resources, Captain Rawlings (Ralph "Eddie" Dunn) dispatches two of his henchmen (Wally West and George DeNomand) to find the hidden trail to the city. After killing a few natives of Dzamm along the way, the inept servants of Rawlings are eaten alive by a large pride of wild lions. Nearby, jungle roamer Jungle Jim (Weissmuller) receives Li Wanna (Verdugo), the daughter of Dzamms chief religious official Zoron (Nelson Leigh). Li Wanna seeks Jungle Jims help in fighting the mercenaries led by Rawlings. It is revealed that the rumour is indeed true—stashed in the temple of Dzamm are crates of precious stones. After hearing news of the murdered Dzamm natives, Jungle Jim and Li Wanna hurry to the scene, just to find the henchmens corpses. Seeing the lions, the agile adventurer and Li Wanna climb up a tree to safety. An African elephant approaches, scaring the beastly cats away. Jungle Jim and Li Wanna return to Zorons residence, where they strategically discuss a peaceful resolution to get rid of Rawlings and his team. They come to the conclusion that giving Rawlings a few diamonds is the best idea. Meanwhile, Wannas brother Chot (Paul Marion) is hypnotised by businessman Calhouns (Vitale) niece Norina (Dell). Chot falls in love with Norina and unknowingly spills some secrets of Dzamm to her. Norina and Calhoun turn out to be under Rawlings payroll. Jungle Jim befriends a gorilla (Ray Corrigan) after rescuing it and its offspring from a ferocious lion. He names it Zimba. After this, he prevents Calhoun from getting to know the trail to Dzamm but gets captured by Rawlings followers. An empathetic Norina is in the midst of setting him free when she gets killed by Calhoun. Luckily, Jims pet fowl Caw Caw unties his ropes and with that, the voyager breaks loose and knocks out some of Rawlings men. However, he is left with no choice but to tell Rawlings the way to Dzamm when Li Wanna, who was finding Jim, gets captured. They make it to the temple of Dzamm. While the criminals are busy raiding the priceless relics and other treasures, Zimba and his fellow gorillas attack the temple robbers, most of whom are killed. Captain Rawlings and his accomplice Wilson (George J. Lewis) manage to escape, holding Jungle Jim captive, but are killed by Zimba. Chot, who has been shot and mortally wounded, asks for forgiveness before he dies. With Rawlings and his fellow looters dead for good, order in Dzamm is restored.
The Lost Tribe (1949 film)
1949