Emma (Monica Potter), John Collingwood (Tony Goldwyn), and their daughter, competitive swimmer Mari (Sara Paxton), head out on vacation to their lake house. Shortly thereafter, Mari borrows the family car and drives into town to spend some time with her friend Paige (Martha MacIsaac). While Paige works the cash register at a local store, she and Mari meet Justin (Spencer Treat Clark), a teenager passing through town who invites them both back to his roadside motel room to smoke marijuana. While the three are hanging out in the motel room, Justins family members return: Krug (Garret Dillahunt), Justins father; Francis (Aaron Paul), Justins uncle; and Sadie (Riki Lindhome), Krugs girlfriend. Krug shows Justin a local newspaper that has Krug and Sadies pictures on the front page, and which explains how Sadie and Francis broke Krug out of police custody and killed the two officers that were transporting him. Believing it too risky to let Paige and Mari go, the gang kidnaps them and uses their car to leave town. While Krug searches for the highway, Mari convinces him to take a road that leads to her parents lake house; Mari then attempts to jump out of the vehicle, but the ensuing fight among the passengers causes Krug to crash into a tree. Frustrated by Maris attempt at escape, Sadie and Francis proceed to beat Mari and Paige as they crawl from the wreckage. Krug attempts to teach Justin to "be a man" by forcing him to fondle Maris breasts. Paige begins insulting him to get him to stop; in response, Krug and Francis stab Paige repeatedly, and Mari watches her friend bleed to death. Krug then rapes Mari. When he is done, Mari musters enough strength to escape the group and make it to the lake so that she can swim to safety. Before she can swim far enough, Krug shoots her in the back, leaving her body floating in the lake. A storm forces Krug and his gang to seek refuge with John and Emma, whose house is nearby. Justin soon realizes that they are Maris parents, and intentionally leaves Maris necklace on the counter to alert them about their daughter. When John and Emma find Mari barely alive on their porch, and the necklace on the counter, they realize that the people who did this to Mari are in their house. As they try to find the key to their boat so that they can take Mari to the hospital, they decide to get revenge on those responsible. When Francis happens upon Mari, he is attacked and killed by John and Emma. When the couple go after Krug and Sadie, they find Justin in possession of Krugs gun; Justin gives the gun to John so that he can kill Krug. Sadie awakens and interrupts John, allowing Krug to escape from the couple: he then realizes that they are Maris parents. After Emma shoots Sadie in the head, John chases Krug. With a combined effort from Emma, John, and Justin, Krug is knocked unconscious. John paralyzes Krug from the neck down and leaves him to die with his head in an active microwave oven (his head explodes), then he, Emma, Mari, and Justin take the boat to the local hospital.
The Last House on the Left (2009 film)
2009