Jerry tries to steal food from the refrigerator while he is being watched by Tom, without him knowing. Jerry is then attacked. When Jerry looks back at Tom, he accidentally runs into a wall. The impact tips over a bottle of white shoe polish from the shelf above over and spills its contents onto Jerry, painting him white. Tom reads a magazine and listens to the radio until a breaking news story is announced that an escaped laboratory white mouse who has consumed enough of an experimental explosive to blow up an entire city is on the loose. The slightest jar would cause the mouse to explode, much to Toms appalled horror. While listening to this, Jerry knows that Tom will mistake him for the white mouse and decides to have some fun. Tom slams the open window shut and relaxes by eating some nuts. As he breaks open the nuts with a hammer, Jerry uses this opportunity and stands on the table. Tom grabs the mouse, thinking he is a nut, but stops the hammer when he feels Jerry, and looks to see the white mouse and his hammer drops down. Tom jumps away and dashes to the phone to call the police. Jerry whistles at him and tries to fall off the table, and Tom immediately set a pillow for Jerry to fall on. Jerry continues these tricks a few more times. Tom begins a chase, which ends quickly when Jerry threatens to hit himself with a hammer. The cat begs him not to do it, and Jerry takes this chance to whack his enemy on the head. Tom stopped by the mouse renewing his "suicidal" threat allows Jerry to hit him on the head several times. Satisfied, the rodent filches a few cookies, which gives the cat the chance to swipe the hammer. In response, Jerry bounces himself on the counter making the cat flinch. The mouse continues bouncing across the counter but does not see the sink full of water. He jumps out and doesnt realize the polish has washed off. Tom grins and allows Jerry to bounce and hit himself with the hammer. Not knowing hes been exposed, Jerry hits himself even harder and ends up bruising himself. Tom then takes the hammer and pounds Jerry into the counter like a nail. He then grabs Jerry by the tail and takes him to the mirror to show him devoid of the polish. Jerry is then thrown out of the house by Tom. The true white mouse appears as Tom kicks Jerry out and runs into the house. Tom goes back to reading his magazine and he hears the white mouse eating some nuts. Thinking that Jerry is trying to fool him again, Tom tries to attack him with his hammer and catches him, then tries to wash the "polish" off in the fishbowl but it doesnt work. Jerry reveals himself grinning from an open window. Tom realizes that he must be holding the real white mouse and the shock of it causes him to age into an old man. Trembling, Tom sets the mouse down then fumbles to call the police but snaps back to reality when the radio announcer comes back on the air with important news that the explosive consumed by the white mouse is no longer dangerous and that the mouse will not explode. Tom is instantly rejuvenated and takes the white mouse to kick him out of the window, then Jerry jumps out of the window. The moment Toms foot makes contact, the mouse causes a massive explosion which reduces the entire neighborhood to rubble, leaving only the radio speaker intact. The radio announcer states: "We repeat, the white mouse will not explode." Tom emerges mortally wounded and drones, "Dont you believe it!" (repeating a gag from the 1944 film Mouse Trouble) as the cartoon closes.
The Missing Mouse
1953