A woman is cornered by police in an abandoned hotel; after overpowering them with superhuman abilities, a group of sinister superhuman black-suited Agents leads the police in a rooftop pursuit. She answers a ringing public telephone and vanishes. Computer programmer Thomas Anderson, living a double life as the hacker "Neo", feels something is wrong with the world and is puzzled by repeated online encounters with the cryptic phrase "the Matrix". The woman, Trinity, contacts him, saying that a man named Morpheus can explain its meaning; however, the Agents, led by Agent Smith, apprehend Neo and threaten him if he doesnt help them capture the "terrorist" Morpheus. Undeterred, Neo meets Morpheus and is offered a choice: a red pill, which will show him the truth about the Matrix, and a blue pill, which will return him to his former life. After swallowing the red pill, his reality disintegrates and Neo awakens, naked, weak and hairless, in a liquid-filled pod, one of countless others connected by cables to an elaborate electrical system. He is rescued and brought aboard Morpheus hovercraft, the Nebuchadnezzar. As he recuperates, Neo learns the truth: after humans created intelligent machines, the machines waged war against humans and won. Since humans blocked the machines access to solar energy, the machines retaliated by harvesting the humans as bioelectric power. The Matrix is a shared simulation of the world in which the minds of the harvested humans are trapped and pacified -from birth to death- while all free humans live in Zion, the last refuge in the real world. Morpheus and his crew hack into the Matrix to "unplug" enslaved humans and recruit them; their understanding of the simulated reality enables them to bend its physical laws, granting them superhuman abilities. Morpheus warns Neo that death within the Matrix also kills the physical body, and that the Agents are powerful, sentient programs that eliminate threats to the system. Morpheus believes Neo is “the One”, an especially powerful human prophesied to free humans and end the war; Neos prowess during virtual combat training lends credence to Morpheus’ belief. The group enters the Matrix to visit the Oracle, a prophet who predicted the emergence of the One. She implies that Neo is not the One and warns Neo that he will have to choose between Morpheus life and his own. Before they can leave the Matrix, the group is ambushed by Agents and tactical police alerted by Cypher, a crew member who betrayed Morpheus to Agent Smith in order to get plugged back into the Matrix. Morpheus allows himself to be captured so Neo and the rest of the crew can escape. Cypher exits the Matrix and murders several crew members, some as they lie defenseless in the real world. As he prepares to disconnect Neo and Trinity, Tank, a crewman whom he had left for dead, kills him. In the Matrix, the Agents interrogate Morpheus to learn his access codes to the mainframe computer in Zion. Tank proposes killing Morpheus to prevent this, but Neo, insisting that he is not the One, resolves to return to the Matrix to rescue Morpheus; Trinity accompanies him. They rescue Morpheus as Neo gains confidence in his abilities, performing feats comparable to the Agents. Morpheus and Trinity exit the Matrix, but Smith thwarts Neos escape. Neo fights Smith as a near equal and defeats him, but Smiths nature as an Agent allows him to survive. Neo flees the converging Agents, locating an exit in the same abandoned hotel from earlier; Smith anticipated this and ambushes Neo, killing him. In the real world, machines called Sentinels attack the Nebuchadnezzar. Trinity whispers to Neo that he can’t be dead because she loves him and the Oracle told her that she would fall in love with the One. She kisses Neo and he revives in the Matrix, now with the power to perceive and control it. He effortlessly defeats Smith and leaves the Matrix just as the ships electromagnetic pulse weapon disables the attacking Sentinels. Later, Neo makes a telephone call inside the Matrix, promising the machines that he will show their prisoners "a world where anything is possible". He hangs up and flies into the sky.
The Matrix
2003