The story begins as Hollywood press agent Bill Dunnigan (Fred MacMurray), who works for a movie studio, arrives by train with the body of actress Olga Treskovna (Alida Valli), in her home town of "Coal Town," named for its coal mining industry. In a voiceover narrated by Dunnigan, we learn that he was in love with Olga, although he never told her; we also never find out if she loved him. He has brought her back to "Coal Town" to honor her deathbed request to be buried there. He encounters hostility from the local funeral director who resents her because she never finished paying for her fathers burial. After being pressured by the funeral director and the pastor of the larger and more prestigious St. Leos Catholic church, Dunnigan goes to Father Paul (Frank Sinatra), the priest of the smaller and poorer Polish St. Michaels church in accordance with Olgas wishes. Showing Dunnigan where Olgas parents are buried in the graveyard atop a hill, away from the dust of the mines, Fr. Paul sings, a cappella – in both English and Polish, the plaintive "Ever Homeward", the only song in the film. The main flashback story then begins, showing how Olga is plucked from a chorus line in a nightclub to serve as the stand-in for an extremely temperamental film actress who is to star as Joan of Arc in a motion picture. Dunnigan realizes that Olga has the makings of a talented actress herself, and when the films star throws a tantrum and walks out, he manages to convince Marcus Harris, the films producer (Lee J. Cobb), to audition Olga, despite her having had no film experience. The screen test is a success and Olga is cast as Joan. However, as filming progresses, she shows signs of being seriously ill. After inquiring after her health from her doctor, Dunnigan is secretly informed that Olga has a severe, fatal form of tuberculosis, likely caused by her inhalation of the coal dust from "Coal Town" where she grew up. Desperate to do something for her hometown that will restore the pride of its bitter and disillusioned citizens, Olga continues with the filming, and collapses after the shooting ends. Rushed to a hospital, she dies with Dunnigan at her side. To generate interest in the film, the grief-stricken Dunnigan desperately pulls a publicity stunt, convincing all 5 churches in "Coal Town" to ring their bells for three days as a tribute to the dead actress, paying them with checks that he cannot cover. Huge interest begins to develop in the unknown actress who gave her life to complete the film, and Marcus Harris wires Dunnigan enough money to cover the checks. But Harris calls Dunnigan and tells him that he has decided not to release the film, because the moviegoing public might resent greeting the arrival of a new star who has died. Harris intends to recast the role and begin filming all over again. On the day of Olgas funeral, an overflow crowd which includes Dunnigan enters the tiny local church, which has never been so full. As the crowd prays, a loud creaking noise is heard, and the statues of St. Michael and the Virgin Mary slowly turn on their pedestals until they face Olgas coffin. The parishioners regard this as a miracle, even though Fr. Paul has already gone to the basement (to ensure the safety of the parishioners) and determined the ground has shifted -- causing the pillars which support the statues under the church to move because of the large crowd. Dunnigan persuades Father Paul not to quash the faith of the people of Coal Town. Marcus Harris, after much reluctance, decides to release the film, which becomes a huge success. Fr. Paul is overwhelmed by the nationwide donations his church has received and the movie studios offer to build a hospital/clinic to fight the disease which cost Olga her life.
The Miracle of the Bells
1948