Following a violent thunderstorm, David Drayton leaves his wife Stephanie at home while he ventures into town with his eight-year-old son Billy and their neighbor, Brent Norton, to buy supplies for repairs. Arriving at a grocery store, they and the other patrons notice unusual police and military activity. Three soldiers enter the store and an MP warns them to depart. Moments later, a panicked and injured man, Dan Miller, runs into the store, warning of danger. Soon after, a thick mist envelops the store, accompanied by earthquake-like tremors, setting off the towns fire siren. A deeply pious woman, Mrs. Carmody, believes that this is the beginning of Armageddon. A shaken woman (Melissa McBride), against objections from the others, leaves the store to go home to her children. While investigating the stores generator, bag-boy Norm volunteers to go outside, but is snatched and pulled into the mist by the tentacle of an unseen monster. At first, everyone is skeptical of the tale, but store manager Bud Brown and a local biker are convinced when they see a severed tentacle in the generator room. Realizing the store front is plate glass, the people trapped in the store block the windows with dog food bags, tape and freezers. Refusing to listen to David, Norton heads outside with a small group to seek help, with the biker following suit with rope tied around his waist. However, the group disappears and the survivors only bring back the severed waist of the biker. That night, enormous flying insects with scorpion-like tails tipped with venomous stingers land on and attach themselves to the windows. Moments later, pterodactyl-like animals preying on said insects ram their beaks into the glass, eventually breaking through the windows and allowing the creatures to enter the supermarket. They begin to attack the terrified people inside and kill Sally, a cashier, and another man, Tom, while one man, Joe, is severely burned and later dies. One of the insects lands on Mrs. Carmody, but doesnt sting her because she keeps still during her prayer. As a result, she starts preaching even more and quickly gains followers among the distraught survivors. In order to retrieve medical supplies and look for more survivors, David, Dan, Private Jessup, Joes brother Bobby, elderly-yet-tough schoolteacher Irene, mechanic Jim, assistant manager Ollie Weeks and patron Mike Hatlen. venture out to the neighboring pharmacy, which unbeknownst to them has been transformed into a spider nest. Among the mass of bodies is the MP, who quickly dies when he falls from his webs and spiders burst out of his back. The group is attacked and Mike and Bobby are killed by the spiders. Following this, most of the people side with Mrs. Carmody. That night, two of the soldiers, Donaldson and Morales, commit suicide shortly afterwards, and, after some pressing from David, Jessup reveals that the local military base was filled with rumors about the Arrowhead Project, the governments attempt to look into other dimensions, and that the scientists responsible for the experiment may have inadvertently opened a doorway into a dimension containing the creatures that are now invading the town. An angry mob then ensues, led by Mrs. Carmody, who orders her followers to blame him. As a result, he is stabbed and ejected from the store as a human sacrifice, quickly falling prey to a large praying mantis-like creature. The following morning, David and his group, consisting of Billy, schoolteacher Amanda, Ollie, Irene, Dan, patron Ambrose, mechanic Myron, and Bud, secretly gather supplies to flee, but Mrs. Carmody stops them, having now turned the entire store against them. After stealing the supplies, she demands that Billy and Amanda be the next sacrifice, only for Ollie to shoot and kill her with Amandas gun as chaos erupts. After Ollie threatens to open fire again, Mrs. Carmodys horrified followers, now returning to their senses and realizing all that they have done because of her, reluctantly stand down and allow Davids group to leave. As the group makes their way to Davids car, Ollie is torn in half by the praying mantis-like creature, Myron and Ambrose are attacked and killed by the giant spiders, and Bud runs back to the market and is allowed to reenter. Only David, Billy, Dan, Amanda, and Irene make it to the car and leave as the remaining survivors in the store watch them drive off, their eventual fates ambiguous. Driving through the mist, David finds his house destroyed and Stephanie dead, seemingly another victim of the giant spiders. Devastated, he drives the group south, passing destroyed vehicles and seeing a gigantic six-legged, tentacled beast. When they run out of gas hours later, the group decides there is no point in going on and David shoots the others (with their consent, except for his son who is not old enough to understand) rather than have them endure horrifying deaths, but is left with no bullet to use on himself. He leaves the car and waits to be killed, but the mist suddenly recedes, revealing that the U.S. Army has arrived, managed to close the portal, and are in the process of exterminating the creatures and restoring order. David also sees that they have rescued survivors, among them the woman who left the store at the phenomenons onset, completely unscathed and having rescued her two children. David realizes that his group was only moments away from being rescued and that their deaths were premature and in vain, and drops to his knees screaming.
The Mist (film)
2007