In 1662, the Kingdom of France faces bankruptcy from King Louis XIVs wars against the Dutch, which has left the countrys agriculture impeded by a heavy tax burden and forced the citizens to live on rotten food. Though the country appears to be on the verge of a revolution, Louis continues to spend his time preparing for war and seducing countless women. The three musketeers have gone their separate ways; Aramis is now an aging priest, Porthos has become a philandering drunk, and Athos is retired and living with his only son, Raoul, who aspires to join the Musketeers. Only DArtagnan has remained with the Musketeers, now serving as their Captain. At a festival, Aramis learns that the Jesuit order has declared Louiss wars unjust and the source of public hunger and outrage. Louis personally instructs Aramis to secretly hunt down and kill the Jesuit leader. Also in attendance are Raoul and his fiancé, Christine Bellefort. Louis immediately sets his sights on Christine, but she resists his affections. A Jesuit assassin attempts to kill Louis but is stopped by DArtagnan. Louis immediately plots to seduce Christine by having Raoul sent to the battlefront. DArtagnan visits Athos to warn him of the danger Raoul faces. But then Raoul arrives and informs his father he has been recalled to his regiment because he believes Louis desires Christine. Raoul nevertheless resolves to go because he will not risk making Christine a widow nor consider himself a coward. Athos angrily warns DArtagnan that if Raoul is harmed, then Louis will become his enemy. He states DArtagnan doesnt understand fatherhood. DArtagnan tells Athos he will personally speak to Louis about Raoul. An angry crowd from Paris attacks the Musketeers when they are fed rotten food, but DArtagnan calms the crowd and says he will personally speak to Louis about public hunger. Louis assures DArtagnan he will deal with the matter, and that Raoul will return soon from the war. Instead, Louis orders his chief adviser executed for distributing the rotten food (which Louis earlier ordered him to distribute), and orders that all rioters are to be shot from now on. Raoul joins the war and is killed at the battlefront by cannon fire. Upon learning of his sons death, Athos attempts to kill Louis but is stopped by DArtagnan, and goes into exile. Louis invites Christine to the royal palace, and successfully seduces her by promising to have his personal doctor treat her sick mother and sister and has them sent to recover at his country estate. Aramis summons Porthos, Athos and DArtagnan for a secret meeting in which he reveals that he himself is the Jesuits leader and has a plan to depose Louis. Athos and Porthos agree, but DArtagnan refuses citing his oath of honor cannot be removed or betrayed. Athos angrily confronts DArtagnan over his devotion and loyalty to Louis, but DArtagnan still refuses to join their plot. Athos brands him a traitor and threatens him with death should they ever meet again. The three musketeers enter a remote prison and smuggle an unnamed prisoner in an iron mask out, taking him to the countryside, where Aramis reveals that he is Philippe, Louiss identical twin brother. Aramis reveals that the night Louis was born, his mother, Queen Anne, gave birth to twins. Louis XIII, hoping to avoid dynastic warfare between his sons, sent Philippe away to live in the countryside with no knowledge of his true identity. On his deathbed, Louis XIII revealed Philippes existence to Anne and Louis. Anne had been told by her priest that Philippe had died at birth and wished to restore Philippes birthright. But Louis, now king and too superstitious to have his brother killed, had Philippe imprisoned in the iron mask to keep his identity secret, something Aramis reluctantly carried out. Aramiss plan is now to redeem himself and save France by replacing Louis with Philippe. The musketeers begin training Philippe to act and behave like Louis, while Athos develops fatherly feelings for him. At a masquerade ball, the musketeers lure Louis to his quarters and subdue him, dressing Philippe in his clothes while taking Louis to the dungeons. DArtagnan uncovers the ruse, after Christine accuses Philippe with evidence of Louiss role in Raouls death and is not punished. He forcibly escorts Philippe to the dungeons and they confront the musketeers before they can take Louis to the Bastille. They trade twins, but Philippe is captured before the musketeers escape. DArtagnan is shocked to learn who Philippe is and begs Louis not to kill him, as does Anne. Louis refuses. Then Philippe pleads with Louis to kill him rather than put him back in the mask, which convinces Louis to send Philippe to the Bastille and have the mask placed on him again. Meanwhile, Christine commits suicide outside Louis bedroom window out of grief. DArtagnan contacts his friends for help in rescuing Philippe from the Bastille. Louis, who suspected DArtagnan would help his friends, ambushes them at the prison. Though he offers DArtagnan clemency in exchange for surrender, DArtagnan refuses, privately revealing to Philippe and his friends that Louis and Philippe are actually his sons from an affair with the Queen. He also reveals he never knew Philippe existed, and never felt pride as a father until now. They charge one final time at Louis and his men and are fired upon; their bravery compels the soldiers to close their eyes before firing and all miss. Louis attempts to stab Philippe but wounds DArtagnan fatally and he dies in his friends arms. Philippe attacks Louis but stops when DArtagnan reminds him that Louis is his brother. Athos asks DArtagnans forgiveness realizing DArtagnans loyalty to Louis was out of fatherly devotion to his son, the same fatherly devotion Athos had to his son Raoul. DArtagnans top lieutenant, Andre, angered by his mentors death, swears his men to secrecy and orders them out of the prison, siding with Philippe. They switch the twins places again and Philippe orders Louis locked away, naming Athos, Porthos and Aramis as his royal counsel. A small funeral is held for DArtagnan and Philippe admits to Athos that he has come to love him like a father, which Athos reciprocates. Philippe later issues Louis a royal pardon and sends him to live peacefully in the countryside, and goes on to become one of Frances greatest kings.
The Man in the Iron Mask (1998 film)
1998