Kevin "Freak" Dillon (Kieran Culkin) is a 13-year-old boy who has Mucopolysaccharidosis IV (or Morquio syndrome) and lives with his mother Gwen Dillon (Sharon Stone). He is extremely intelligent and prone to flights of fancy, but due to his disability walks with leg braces and crutches. Maxwell "Max" Kane (Elden Henson) is a 15-year-old oversized, yet good-natured, teenage boy who suffers from dyslexia and lives with his maternal grandparents Susan "Gram" (Gena Rowlands) and Elton "Grim" Pinneman (Harry Dean Stanton). He has flunked the seventh grade twice and is tormented by Tony "Blade" Fowler (Joseph Perrino), a teenage juvenile delinquent from the same school as Freak and Max, who is also the leader of the "Doghouse Boys", a teenage bully gang. When Kevin is assigned as Maxs reading tutor, they form a bond of friendship over the similar circumstances they share, such as both being outcasts and their fathers abandoning them. Freak and Max go to a local festival to watch a firework show and get attacked by Blade and his gang. The two escape into a nearby lake with Freak riding on Maxs shoulders. Freak later witnesses the "Doghouse Boys" putting someones purse in a sewer. The two retrieve the purse, but are once again confronted by Blade and his gang. They attempt to attack Freak, but Max stops them by picking up a manhole cover and throwing it at the gang, who run away, fearing for their lives. Both Max and Freak found out the purse belongs to a woman named Loretta Lee (Gillian Anderson). Freak and Max return the purse to Loretta and find out that she is married to Iggy Lee (Meat Loaf), a former gang leader. Loretta recognizes Max from his childhood; she and Iggy were old friends of Maxs father, Kenny "Killer" Kane, who is currently serving a prison sentence for the murder of Maxs mother. Afterward, the two boys help each other out with Freak acting as Maxs brain, and Max acting as Freaks legs by carrying him around everywhere on his shoulders. This allows Freak to partake in activities he couldnt before, such as a basketball game. Freak, in an attempt to entertain his friends by playing with his food, chokes on it and collapses. He is rushed to the hospital, where Gwen is informed that Freak has only a year left to live, due to his deteriorating health accelerated by the blockage of his airways. One day, Freak shows Max a research center where he was to be rehabilitated. It appears that he knew about his condition, as he stated that hed be the first one to be retrofitted with a new body. On Christmas Eve, Max is kidnapped by Kenny, who has been released from prison on parole. Max is taken to Iggy and Lorettas apartment and tied up. Loretta discreetly attempts to help Max escape, which leads to Kenny attempting to strangle her. Max uncovers a repressed memory of Kenny killing his mother; he breaks free of his bounds and attacks his father. Freak tracks Max and Kenny to Iggy and Lorettas apartment and breaks in, armed with a squirt gun he claims is loaded with sulfuric acid, which he sprays in Kennys eyes. Just as Kenny regains himself and attempts to attack Freak, Max tackles him through the wall, where the police are waiting. Kenny attempts to run away before getting tackled down by an officer and is taken back to prison to serve for life without the possibility of early parole, and Freak tells Max the squirt gun was loaded with harmless chemicals, such as soap and chili powder. Freak and Max, along with Gwen, Grim and Gram, have Christmas dinner together. Exchanging gifts, Freak gives Max a blank book and tells him to write in it. That night, Freak dies in his sleep from heart problems. Max is woken to Gram breaking the news to him, and he gives chase to the ambulance on foot. Max recalls the research facility Freak had mentioned working on a cure. He rushes there, only to discover Freak had lied; it was actually a commercial laundromat. Max collapses, screaming in despair among the laundry workers. For the next several weeks, Max continues going to school, but refuses to leave his room otherwise. He misses Freaks funeral and Gwen moving away. He later runs into Loretta at a bus stop, wearing a neck brace from Kennys attempted strangulation. She tells him that doing "nothings a drag". He takes this advice to heart, even working up the courage to answer a question from a teacher during a lecture. Inspired by their bond, Max remembers Freak and all the adventures they had and he decides to write it all in the empty book Freak had given him. Max eventually gets writers block on the last page so he puts an illustration of King Arthurs grave, which reads, "Here Lies King Arthur, Once and Future King", to symbolize his belief that he will see Freak again. Max takes Freaks ornithopter and winds it up, making it fly. A narration by Max is heard as the ornithopter flies off:
The Mighty
1998