A young English woman named Nicky Ferris (Hayley Mills) takes a trip with her folk musicologist aunt, Frances (Joan Greenwood), to a small coastal inn on the Greek island of Crete. Owner Sophia (Irene Papas) refuses to allow them to stay at her inn, The Moon-Spinners, but Aunt Frances and Sophias teenage son Alexis (Michael Davis) persuade her into changing her mind. Whilst Nicky and Aunt Frances are in their room, Sophias brother Stratos (Eli Wallach) demands to know why they chose to stay at his sisters inn and says they should leave, but Aunt Frances insists on staying. Stratos reluctantly agrees to allow them to stay for one night. During a wedding party at the inn later that evening, Nicky meets a stranger named Mark (Peter McEnery), who invites her and Aunt Frances to have a meal with him. They accept. Their dinner meeting attracts Stratoss suspicious stare, which Nicky notices and points out to Mark. Mark hints theres more to Stratos than appears. At end of the evening, Mark suggests that he and Nicky could meet in the morning to go for a swim in the Bay of Dolphins. Nicky agrees. She comes downstairs the next morning, and quickly learns that Mark has checked out of the inn. She feels, however, that something is afoot, and goes walking. During her walk, Nicky wanders into the basement of a church, where Mark is hiding. She learns he has been shot, and he asks her to go back to the inn and get supplies for him, but refuses to offer details as to how he got injured. Nicky goes back to the inn and successfully retrieves her aunt’s first aid kit, as well as a bottle of brandy, and a travel rug. She returns to church and treats Mark’s wound. He still will not tell her how he got injured, but instead urges her to go to the nearby town of Agios Nikolaos with her aunt for safety. Meanwhile, Aunt Frances notices that her items are missing, and Stratos promises to find them for her. On her way back to the inn, Nicky runs into Stratos, who is looking for her and demands to know why she is carrying a first aid kit. Nicky tries to lie to cover up for Mark, but Stratos becomes suspicious, and goes to search the church. He doesn’t find anything, however, sees Nicky as a threat, and ties her up in the top of a windmill. Alexis and Mark find her there, and rescue her. In the meantime, Stratos sends men out after Mark to kill him, so he and Nicky go on the run, eventually finding shelter in an abandoned temple. Here, Mark tells Nicky that he was accused of stealing jewels from a rich woman called the Countess of Fleet, but that he was actually attacked and had the jewels stolen from him. He believes the attacker to be Stratos, and he also believes Stratos is hiding the jewels in the Bay of Dolphins. Mark and Nicky fall asleep, but are awoken some time later by a British gentleman who introduces himself as Anthony Gamble, and who takes them to his summer villa that happens to be in Agios Nikolaos, and has his wife, Cynthia, take care of them. It is revealed that he is working with Stratos. Through conversation with the couple, Nicky learns about a rich woman named Madame Habib, who is in Greece on her yacht. She tells this to Mark, who immediately feels strongly that Stratos intends to sell the jewels to her, but he is very weak because Cynthia has drugged him. He passes out. The couple advise that Mark go to Athens to receive medical care, and order a hearse to transport him in. On the way to the hospital, Mark wakes up and tells Nicky he has to go and stop Stratos before it is too late. When Nicky says it is too dangerous and tries to stop him, he kisses her and leaves. Nicky (unbeknownst to Mark) follows him, and makes it to the yacht of Madame Habib before anyone else. She tells Madame Habib that Stratos is a thief and that the jewels she intends to buy from him were stolen from the Countess of Fleet, who happens to be an old friend of Madame Habib’s. Stratos shows up to sell the jewels, but so do Mark, Frances, and Alexis. A fight ensues. In the end, Madame Habib has police take Stratos off the yacht, and returns the jewels to Mark. The final scene shows Alexis leaving by boat, waving at Mark and Nicky, and implying that they will soon get married.
The Moon-Spinners
1964