In 1968, Justin McLeod has been living an isolated existence as a reclusive painter for the past seven years, following a car accident which left him disfigured on the right side of his face and chest by burns sustained in a post-crash fire. Young Chuck Nordstadt endures a dysfunctional relationship with his sister and their widowed mother. One day, Chuck meets McLeod on a ferry; Chuck is both intrigued and slightly scared of him. Chuck needs a tutor to help him pass a military academys entrance exam. Eventually, Chuck persuades McLeod to become his teacher; although he is initially baffled by McLeods unorthodox methods, the two develop a close friendship. Chuck keeps his daily meetings with McLeod a secret, to avoid being scorned for associating with a disfigured man whose past is shrouded in mystery. No one knows much about McLeod and few people have ever made an effort to know him; this has made McLeod the object of gossip, speculation, and suspicion. Ultimately, Widow Nordstadt learns that her son has been visiting McLeod. She and the rest of the town convince themselves that McLeod is molesting Chuck, despite Chucks adamant denials. Chuck researches McLeods car accident, which involved the death of another boy, hence McLeods fear of another attachment. Chuck is forcibly taken to a psychiatrist, who Chuck accurately suspects is also biased against McLeod. Chuck inevitably confronts McLeod to learn the truth of his disfigurement and to discover the identity of that youth who was killed in the same car crash. As it turns out, the other boy was a student of McLeods. Consequently, McLeod was unjustly branded a pedophile, was exiled from his hometown, was convicted of involuntary manslaughter and served three years in prison. Once his relationship with Chuck is openly known, McLeod is once again run out of town and ordered by the authorities to have no contact with Chuck. On his way out of town, McLeod leaves Chuck a note; it wishes him the best of luck in his academic goals and reminds him to be tolerant with people who are different. In the films finale, Chuck is shown graduating from the military academy as his sister and their mom look on proudly. Chuck sees a familiar figure in the background and recognizes it as his "faceless" tutor.
The Man Without a Face
1993