Mammy Two Shoes is setting the table for a fancy dinner, and while she is not looking Jerry climbs up the tablecloth and hides under a napkin. As soon as Mammy leaves the room, Tom emerges from a flower pot behind the door and calls his love interest, Toots, to invite her to dinner. Jerry starts eating the cracker spread, but Tom knocks Jerry out by whacking him with a spoon. Tom forces Jerry to perform menial duties for the cats, such as carrying food and blowing on Toms soup. Annoyed, Jerry drinks the soup and spits it into Toms face. Tom holds the spoon on which Jerry is standing over a burning candle, causing the mouse to yelp in pain and jump onto a stick of butter which melts instantly. As Toots offers Tom bread, Jerry sandwiches Toms tail between it. Unaware, Tom pours ketchup onto it and bites it, causing him to leap up and scream in pain. Jerry then puts a pineapple slice on the end of Toms tail and covers it with whipped cream and a cherry, tricking Tom into biting down on the tasty treat. Again, the cat leaps and screams in pain. Tom twists Jerrys tail into a corkscrew which he uses to uncork a champagne bottle. He tosses the mouse with the cork still attached into a water goblet and pours drinks for himself and Toots. After drinking his champagne, Tom tries to make several passes at Toots, who impressively dodges them. When Tom finally gets a hold of Toots and kisses her several times, she retrieves a large mallet, labeled "Wolf Pacifier", from her purse and whacks Tom over the head with it. Jerry observes the whole thing, much to his own amusement, and mocks Tom by kissing a scallion. Tom jams a cigar cap into Jerrys mouth and strikes a match on him to light the cigar. Jerry hits Tom in the face with a pie. Tom throws a pie in return, but Jerry ducks and the pie hits Toots, who begins throwing pies back at Tom. Tom ducks, avoiding the first three throws, but Jerry stabs him in the back causing him to jump up in time to get hit with the fourth pie. Tom hides under a dome lid and lifts his head up, catching Jerry in his mouth. Tom tries to bite Jerry, but Jerry sticks out Toms tongue, which he bites down on. Before Tom can react, Jerry bangs the lid on Toms head with a serving spoon. Jerry then hides in a turkey. Tom sticks knives into the turkey, as Jerry gasps and moans. The cat continues jabbing unaware that Jerry has extricated himself from the bird and is merely imitating pain sounds. When Jerry continues to make sounds after Tom stops stabbing, Tom spots Jerry and pokes him with a knife (to which Jerry says "ouch"). Jerry bites Toms tail, causing Tom to jump and fly through the air, barely dodging the knife as Jerry sticks it underneath him. As Tom chases Jerry, Jerry breaks a wine bottle and stabs Tom. As Tom retreats behind the punch bowl, Jerry throws dinner rolls into his face, much to Toms delight. As Tom opens his mouth for another one, Jerry hides a salt shaker into a third roll and throws it into Toms mouth. Jerry then hides in a candelabra and uses a candle to light Toms tail. Oblivious, Tom lights a cigarette from his tail. As his tail burns, he rushes off to sit on an ice bucket, but Jerry replaces it with an oil lamp. Tom hears his tail burning, prompting him to leap up through the ceiling and crash onto and break a plank from the table, knocking him out and wrecking the place settings. As the plank becomes an incline to the punchbowl and Toms bowtie gets tangled with his tail, Jerry writes S.S. Drip onto Toms back and gives Toots a bottle of champagne, and she smashes it onto Tom. Toots then waves a napkin at Tom and Jerry makes high-pitched whistling as Tom slides into the punchbowl and sinks into it.
The Mouse Comes to Dinner
1945