Gordon Bombay (Emilio Estevez) is a successful Minneapolis defense attorney who never loses a case but whose courtroom antics have earned him no respect among his peers. After successfully defending a client resulting in his 30th win, Bombay is called into his bosss office to be congratulated but also chastised for embarrassing the judge. He responds by going out drinking and is subsequently arrested for drunken driving. Bombay is sentenced to community service by coaching the local "District 5" Pee-Wee hockey team. Bombay has an unpleasant history with the sport; in 1973, Bombay was the star player on the Hawks, but, struggling to cope with the loss of his father, he missed a penalty shot during the championship game, disappointing his hyper-competitive coach, Jack Reilly (Lane Smith). The Hawks would go on to lose in overtime. When Bombay meets the team, he realizes the children have no practice facility, equipment or ability. The teams first game with Bombay at the helm is against the Hawks. Reilly is still the head coach and remains bitter about Gordons miss years earlier. District 5 is routed as Reilly demands the Hawks run up the score; after the game, Bombay berates the team for not listening to him, and the players challenge his authority. For the next match, Bombay tries to teach his team how to dive and draw penalties, but this angers the team further. Meanwhile, Bombay discovers his old mentor and family friend Hans (Joss Ackland), who owns a nearby sporting goods store, was in attendance. While visiting him, Bombay recalls that he quit playing hockey after losing his father four months before the championship game, and due to Reilly blaming Gordon for the loss. Hans encourages him to rekindle his childhood passion. Bombay approaches his boss, the firms co-founder Gerald Ducksworth (Josef Sommer) to sponsor the team. The result is a complete makeover for the team - both in look, as they can now buy professional equipment, and in skill, as Bombay has more time to teach the kids hockey fundamentals. Currently playing as the Ducks (named for Ducksworth). They fight to a tie in the next game. The Ducks recruit three new players: Figure skating siblings Tommy (Danny Tamberelli) and Tammy Duncan (Jane Plank) and slap shot specialist and enforcer Fulton Reed (Elden Henson). The potential of Ducks player Charlie Conway (Joshua Jackson) catches Bombays eye; he takes him under his wing and teaches him some of the hockey tactics he used when he played with the Hawks. Bombay learns that, due to redistricting, the star player for the Hawks, Adam Banks (Vincent Larusso), should be playing for the Ducks. He then threatens Reilly into transferring Banks to the Ducks. After hearing an out-of-context quote about them, the Ducks players lose faith in Bombay and revert to their old habits. Ducksworth makes a deal with Reilly about the Hawks keeping Banks; however, Bombay refuses it, since it would be against fair play, which Ducksworth berated him about when he started his community service. Left with either the choice of letting his team down or get fired from his job, Bombay takes the latter. Bombay manages to win back the trust of his players after they win a crucial match, and Banks, who decided hed rather play for the Ducks than not play hockey at all, proves to be an asset, and the Ducks reach the championship against the Hawks. Despite the Hawks massive attacks taking Banks out of the game, the Ducks manage to tie the game late, and Charlie is tripped by a Hawks player as time expires. In precisely situation Bombay faced at the beginning of the film, Charlie prepares for a penalty shot to win the championship. In stark contrast to Reilly - who told Bombay that if he missed, he was letting everyone down - Bombay tells Charlie that he will believe in him no matter what happens. Inspired, Charlie jukes out the goalie with a "triple-deke" (taught to him by Bombay) to defeat the Hawks for the state championship. The Ducks and family race out onto the ice in jubilation, where Bombay thanks Hans for his belief in him and Hans tells Bombay he is proud of him. Later, Bombay boards a bus headed to a minor-league tryout, secured for him by the NHLs Basil McRae of the Minnesota North Stars (now the Dallas Stars). Although he seems daunted at the prospect of going up against younger players, he receives the same words of encouragement and advice from the Ducks Bombay had given them, promising he will return next season to defend their title.
The Mighty Ducks
1996