A terrified mother and her young son are packing a suitcase. She hears something outside the door and makes her son hide under the bed. The door bursts open and an unseen force throws the mother against the wall, killing her. The son flees and runs into his terrified sister. The boy hides, but his sister is caught and pushed over a banister, then dragged to the cellar. The hiding boy is eventually found by the attacker. Five years later, the Solomon family from Chicago moves into the house, near a small town in North Dakota. Roy Solomon is planning to start a sunflower farm. The teenage daughter, Jess, is upset about moving away from her friends. Some time ago, Jess had driven drunk with her younger brother, Ben, a toddler at the time. She crashed the car, seriously injuring Ben. He recovered from his injuries, but does not speak. Her parents, Roy and Denise, have a hard time trusting her and they are broke because of the expenses for Bens treatment. Roy believes moving to the farm will help heal the family. Ominous events begin to occur. The house always has crows flying around it. Some attack Roy; but theyre driven off by a drifter named John Burwell, whom Roy hires as a farmhand. Ben sees ghosts of the mother and the children, though they do not seem to be frightened. Jess is at the top of the stairs to the cellar when a hands reach out and grab Jesss legs and start pulling her down into the cellar. Jess manages to get free and calls 9-1-1. Bobby, a boy from town whom Jess befriends, supports her. Jess is walking in the barn when her feet start to sink into the ground and hands reach up and grabs Jesss legs and starts pulling her into the ground . Jess claws at the ground while trying to get free. Determined to prove her claims, and goes into town with Bobby to learn more. She discovers that the Rollins family, the houses previous owners, left suddenly five years ago. Jess believes that they didnt move, and that something terrible happened to them. While at a local store, Jess sees a newspaper clipping of the family, with the father revealed to be none other than her dads new farmhand. John Burwell is actually John Rollins, the man who, in a fit of madness, murdered his entire family (the beginning of the film). Shocked, Jess rushes back to the house with Bobby to warn her family. At the house Denise prepares to go outside but Denise looks up and sees the mothers ghost coming out of the wall with the blood stain, which she tried many times to wipe off. Denise slowly walks back when a hand reaches out from under the bed and grabs Denises ankle. Realizing Jess had been right, she becomes determined to leave. John is viciously attacked by the crows, and his mental state becomes unbalanced. He believes Denise is his wife Mary, trying to leave him again as the actual Mary had 5 years before. He attacks Denise, but she grabs Ben and hides in the cellar. Bobby and Jess arrive, but John knocks Bobby out with a pitchfork. Jess runs into the cellar and finds Denise and Ben. Denise apologizes to Jess for not believing her about the ghosts. John looks for them, believing that Jess is his daughter Lindsay, and Ben is his son Michael. Roy arrives but is stabbed by John. Jess tries to leave through outside cellar door but John grabs Jesss pant leg and drags her back in. When John asks Jess, thinking that shes Lindsay, if they are still a family, the ghosts of Johns slain family arise from bubbling mud. John attempts to finish Jess off with a pitchfork, Jess dodges the attack as she responds that her family isnt his before kicking John into the mud, his victims attack John and vengefully pull him down for murdering his family. John rises from the mud and grabs Jesss legs, trying to pull her in with him. A wounded Roy is struggles to pull Jess out but the hands have a tight grip. Jess is up to her thighs in the mud, Denise helps Roy pull Jess out but Jesss boot is pulled off to be sucked down in the mud. Thanks to Bobby, Officer Drew and paramedics arrive shortly after the attack. As Roy is loaded into the ambulance, he apologizes to Jess. Some time later, everything has returned to normal. The crows no longer attack, the ghosts stop appearing, and Ben starts talking again. The family is happy once more.
The Messengers (film)
2007