In 1949, Ed Crane (Billy Bob Thornton) is a low-key barber in the town of Santa Rosa, California. He is married to Doris (Frances McDormand), a bookkeeper with a drinking problem, and he works in a barber shop that belongs to his brother-in-law Frank (Michael Badalucco). A customer named Creighton Tolliver (Jon Polito) tells Ed that hes a businessman looking for investors to put up $10,000 in a new technology called dry cleaning. Ed decides to get the money by anonymously blackmailing Doriss boss, "Big Dave" Brewster (James Gandolfini), whom he knows to be having an affair with Doris. Dave embezzles money from his department store to pay the blackmail. However, he soon pieces together the scheme, and beats Tolliver until he implicates Ed. Dave confronts Ed at the store and attempts to kill him, but Ed stabs Dave fatally with a cigar knife. After Daves funeral, his wife comes to Ed and confesses that, one day, she and Dave saw a UFO. Later, irregularities in the stores books are found. The police arrest Doris for embezzlement and Daves murder. Ed is persuaded to hire Freddy Riedenschneider (Tony Shalhoub), an expensive defense attorney from Sacramento, who arrives and takes up residence in the best and most expensive hotel in town. He proceeds to live lavishly on Doriss defense fund, which Frank obtained by mortgaging the barber shop. It is all for nothing, because on the morning of the trial Doris hangs herself in her cell. It is later revealed that she was pregnant when she hanged herself, but had not had sex with Ed for many years. Riedenschneider leaves town disgusted and Frank, now deeply in debt, starts drinking heavily. Ed makes regular visits to Rachel "Birdy" Abundas (Scarlett Johansson), a friends teenage daughter, to hear her play the piano. Tormented by loneliness, he imagines helping her start a musical career and becoming her manager. The fantasy is crushed when a music teacher (Adam Alexi-Malle) tells him that Birdy has no talent. Driving back from visiting the teacher, Birdy makes a pass at Ed and attempts to perform oral sex on him, causing Ed to lose control of the car and crash. Ed awakens in a hospital bed and two police officers (Christopher Kriesa and Brian Haley) tell him hes under arrest for murder. Tollivers beaten body has been found with Eds investment contract. The police speculate that Ed coerced Doris into embezzling the investment money and when Tolliver found out he was killed. Ed engages Riedenschneider for his defense. During Riedenschneiders opening statement Frank attacks Ed; a mistrial is declared. Without wealth, Ed throws himself on the mercy of the court. The tactic fails to work, and the judge sentences him to death. While waiting on death row, Ed writes his story to sell to a pulp magazine. Shortly before his execution, Ed sees a UFO outside the jailhouse. As Ed is electrocuted, he reflects on his fate, regretting none of his decisions and hoping to see Doris in the afterlife, both of them free of the mortal worlds imperfections.
The Man Who Wasn't There (2001 film)
2001