Don Gallico (Vincent Price) is a magician, master of disguise, and inventor of stage-magic effects in the late 1800s aspiring to become a star magician under the stage name Gallico the Great. Disguised as The Great Rinaldi, a headlining rival magician, Mr. Gallico performs a number of magic tricks successfully, building up to the reveal of his latest invention, the buzz-saw, an illusion that "severs" the head of the magicians assistant Karen Lee (Mary Murphy). Before Mr. Gallico can perform the buzz-saw illusion, the curtains come down to stop the performance. Businessman Ross Ormond (Donald Randolph) and his lawyer serve Mr. Gallico a cease and desist order against the performance of the buzz-saw trick much to the anger of Mr. Gallico. Ms. Lees boyfriend, police detective Lt. Alan Bruce (Patrick ONeal), is asked by her to intervene in the dispute between Mr. Gallico and Mr. Ormond. Mr. Gallico informs the detective that he signed a contract with Mr. Ormonds Illusions, Inc., a magicians trick provider, to invent new tricks. Mr. Ormond claims to own all work created by Mr. Gallico, not just the tricks produced for Illusions, Inc., Mr. Gallicos understanding. The next day at Mr. Gallicos work area within the Illusions, Inc. warehouse, detective Mr. Bruce reviews Mr. Gallicos contract and explains that the contract is as Mr. Ormond stated: anything Mr. Gallico invents is the property of Illusions, Inc. As the detective is leaving, he asks Mr. Gallico to tell Ms. Lee where and when to meet him for dinner. Just then Mr. Ormond and the real Great Rinaldi (John Emery) arrive. Mr. Ormond and The Great Rinaldi are shown the buzz-saw illusions inner workings and ruminate on the performance of the trick by The Great Rinaldi and not by Mr. Gallico, the tricks inventor. Gallico grows angry. The Great Rinaldi departs leaving Mr. Ormond and Mr. Gallico to discuss their business arrangement; Mr. Ormond dismisses Mr. Gallicos anger by explaining that Mr. Gallico was presented the opportunity to invent under the contract and that Mr. Ormonds wooing of Mr. Gallicos wife Claire (Eva Gabor) was due to her rich needs and Mr. Ormonds ability to provision them, something that Mr. Gallico was never able to do. Incensed, Mr. Gallico attacks Mr. Ormond and forces him into the buzz-saw on functional mode (non-illusion) and decapitates him. His crime is almost revealed when Mr. Ormonds severed head is mistakenly taken for a trip with Gallicos assistant Ms. Lee and Mr. Bruce. Gallico then impersonates Ormond to rent an apartment from Alice Prentiss (Lenita Lane), an author of mystery novels. Gallico disposes of Ormonds body, but is again forced to murder when his ex-wife Claire discovers the impersonation. Prentiss comes forth as a witness to the crime, but identifies Ormond as Claires murderer. The Great Rinaldi again schemes to steal a trick of Gallicos, an illusion involving a crematorium, and ultimately winds up burned to death in the process. Gallico begins impersonating Rinaldi to take over that magicians show. Meanwhile, Alan Bruce matches the fingerprints of Ormond with those of Rinaldi—since both sets of prints are actually Gallicos, and the novelist Prentiss realizes her boarder, and the murderer, was Gallico and not Ormond. The two, along with the assistant Karen, band together for an ultimate confrontation with Gallico.
The Mad Magician
1954