While Tom is throwing darts at an apple on Jerrys head à la William Tell (he even throws one between his legs while blindfolded), a telegram arrives. Though it is meant for his owner, Tom reads it himself and discovers that he has been left a million dollars in a will from his owners eccentric aunt, making him ecstatic. Jerry also reads the letter and gets ecstatic. Jerry points out that the will has a condition which would cause Tom to forfeit his newly acquired wealth if he harms any living animal, even a mouse. The next day, news of Toms inheritance quickly spreads and he moves to 1 Park Avenue. He quickly becomes accustomed to his lavish lifestyle, but Jerry keeps showing up and tormenting Tom with the "Even A Mouse" line in the telegram. Jerry tries to push Toms buttons by smacking him in the face with his own dickey, assaulting him in his limousine, stealing his sundae, and hogging all of the bed sheets while he tries to sleep. The next morning, after Jerry steals Toms bathroom towel, he tries to get Jerry to leave by hanging a fire exit sign on the window and starting a fire in front of the bathroom door. Jerry promptly jumps out of the window. The cat cheers before sitting down to enjoy his breakfast, but when he grabs his napkin, however, he uncovers Jerry, who posts the telegram on the table and eats Toms breakfast. As a final insult, he squirts Tom in the face by squeezing a grapefruit, reminding him that as long as the "Even A Mouse" rule stands, he can do whatever he wants to Tom, then he once again smacks Toms dickey in his face. This proves to be the final straw: Tom loses his temper as his blood boils over with rage. Tom furiously grabs the telegram, tears it into pieces, and even shoves the "Even A Mouse" proviso into Jerrys mouth, literally forcing him to eat his words. Jerry swallows it in horror at what is about to happen, as Tom leaps into the air with a loud and insane scream before attacking Jerry by smashing the crockery and breakfast tray on him. After a few seconds, Tom contemplates that he is throwing away his fortune but he is still happy and satisfied, and then continues attacking Jerry.
The Million Dollar Cat
1944