Freddie Quell is a World War II veteran, struggling to adjust to post-war society and prone to erratic behavior. One night, Freddie finds himself in San Francisco and stows away on the yacht of a follower of Lancaster Dodd, the leader of a nascent philosophical movement known as "The Cause." When he is discovered, Dodd describes Freddie as "aberrated" and invites him to stay and attend the marriage of his daughter, Elizabeth, as long as he will make more of his homemade moonshine, which Dodd has developed a taste for. Dodd begins an exercise with Freddie called "Processing", a flurry of disturbing psychological questions. Freddie travels with Dodds family as they spread the teachings of "The Cause" along the East Coast. At a dinner party in New York, a man questions Dodds methods and statements. Freddie pursues him to his apartment and assaults him that night. Other members of "The Cause" begin to worry about Freddies behavior. Freddie criticizes Dodds son Val for disregarding his fathers teachings, but Val tells Freddie that Dodd is making things up as he goes along. Dodd is arrested for practicing medicine without proper qualifications after one of his former hostesses has a change of heart; Freddie is also arrested for assaulting the police officers. Freddie erupts in a tirade, questioning everything that Dodd has taught him and accuses him of being a fake. They reconcile upon their release, but members of "The Cause" have become more suspicious and fearful of Freddie, believing him to be deranged or an undercover agent. Freddie accompanies Dodd to Phoenix, for the release of Dodds latest book. When Dodds publisher criticizes the quality of the book and its teachings, Freddie assaults him. Helen Sullivan, a previously acquiescent acolyte, causes Dodd to lose his temper after she questions some details of the book. Eventually, Freddie abandons the group and returns home to rekindle his relationship with Doris, a young woman he loved during the war, but learns from her mother that she has married and started a family since he last saw her. While sleeping in a movie theater, Freddie believes he receives a phone call from Dodd, who is now residing in England. Freddie is asked to come join him. When Freddie arrives, Dodd gives him an ultimatum: stay with "The Cause" and devote himself to it for the rest of his life or leave and never return. Freddie doesnt answer, leaving Dodd to comment that if Freddie can find a way to live without a master, any master, to let Dodd know because hell be the first person in the history of the world to do so. Freddie leaves and picks up a woman at a local pub, then repeats questions from his first processing session with Dodd as he is having sex with her. On a beach, Freddie curls up next to a crude sand sculpture of a woman he and his wartime comrades erected during the war.
The Master (2012 film)
2012