When American diplomat William Gridley (Jack Lemmon) arrives in London, he rents part of Carly Hardwickes (Kim Novak) house from her and promptly begins to fall in love. Gridley doesnt know that many people think she killed her British husband, Miles Hardwick (Maxwell Reed), because he has disappeared; but without a body, the police cannot do a thing. Gridleys boss is Franklyn Ambruster (Fred Astaire), a State Department chief in the American embassy who learns about it and doesnt take this "lapse of judgment" lightly. A Scotland Yard detective arrives at the embassy and convinces Gridley, who by this time is in love with Carly, to spy on her without letting her realize she is being investigated. When a fire erupts as Carly and Gridley are grilling steaks in the backyard of her house, a scandal ensues that is played out in the papers. Since Carly is also American, she goes to the embassy to tell his boss that Gridley is a good man and not to send him out of the country. The boss takes Carly to lunch, becomes smitten with her, and proclaims her innocence. After Carly has pawned many of her belongings to pay bills, her husband, Miles shows up alive but then is shot and killed by Carly as Gridley is on the phone with the Scotland Yard detective. Carly is put on trial but is exonerated due to the eyewitness testimony of her crippled neighbors private nurse saying that Miles was attacking Carly. Ultimately Carly tells Gridley that she is being blackmailed by the nurse who wants the pawn ticket to a candelabra that Carly recently pawned. The pawn ticket was actually the cause of the argument between Carly and Miles, who had stuffed the candelabra with stolen jewels. When Gridley and Carly go to retrieve the candelabra, they find the pawnbroker murdered. A chase sequence ensued, and Gridley and Carly find the nurse in the act of pushing her elderly patient off a cliff to silence her story. It was, in fact, the elderly patient who witnessed Miles and Carly fighting, and the nurse merely said she was the one who saw the struggle. Gridley and Carly save the eldery lady as music from The Pirates of Penzance plays, and Gridleys chief and the Scotland Yard detective arrive to find the nurse detained.
The Notorious Landlady
1962