In March 1868, Howard Kemp is tracking Ben Vandergroat, who is wanted for the murder of the marshal in Abilene, Kansas. On the western slope of the Rocky Mountains in southern Colorado, Kemp meets a grizzled old prospector, Jesse Tate, and offers him $20 ($370 today) to help. Tate assumes that Kemp is a sheriff, and Kemp does nothing to disillusion him. They trap someone on top of a rocky hill who Kemp is convinced must be his Vandergroat. Looking for a way around the hill, Kemp and Tate encounter a Union soldier, Lieutenant Roy Anderson. He is heading east since being discharged from the 6th Cavalry at Fort Ellis in Bozeman, Montana. Kemp chances to see Andersons discharge order, which describes him as "morally unstable" and a dishonorable discharge. Tate tells Anderson that Kemp is a sheriff. With the aid of Anderson, who scales a sheer cliff face, Vandergroat is caught, along with his companion, Lina Patch, the daughter of Vandergroats friend, Frank Patch, who was shot dead trying to rob a bank in Abilene.  Vandergroat sets Tate and Anderson straight on that Kemp is no lawman, and that a $5,000 reward ($92,000 today) is being offered to bring him in. Tate and Anderson want their shares to aid Kemp in getting Vandergroat back to Kansas. Lina is convinced that her fathers friend is innocent. On the trail to Abilene, Vandergroat attempts to turn his captors against each other, using greed as his weapon. He also encourages Lina to use her beauty to divide Kemp and Anderson. Scouting a mountain pass, Kemp and Tate spot a dozen Blackfoot, a normally friendly tribe, far from their normal hunting grounds. They tell the others, and Anderson confesses that the Indians are after him for raping the chiefs daughter. Kemp tells Anderson to leave them and wishes him luck avoiding the Blackfoot. Anderson thinks Kemp just wants a bigger share of the reward money. He rides ahead, waits for Kemps group to approach the Blackfoot to parlay, then shoots the chief from his hiding place.  During the ensuing battle, Kemp saves Lina from the Blackfoot and she, in turn, helps him when he is shot in the leg. Kemp passes out as they ride on and awakes from a delirious nightmare. He thinks Lina is Mary, his ex-fiancée. Vandergroat tells the others that Mary sold Kemps ranch while he was a soldier in the Civil War, and then left with another man. Vandergroat states that Kemp needs the bounty to buy his ranch back, explaining his offer of only $20 to the other men. Lina is confused by loyalty to her fathers friend, offset by a growing attraction to Kemp. She has only ever seen Vandergroat involved in fair fights, but is shocked when he loosens Kemps saddle cinch and tries to push him off a high mountain pass. Taking refuge from a storm in a cave, Vandergroat manipulates Lina into distracting Kemp. She tells the rancher of her dream to go to California, where she can make a fresh start. He tells her of his wish to repurchase his ranch. They kiss, and this gives Vandergroat a chance to escape. Kemp catches him, and Anderson suggests that, because the reward is for "dead or alive", they should just kill the troublemaker. Tate stops Anderson but, caught up in the anger of the moment and hurt by what he sees as Linas treachery, Kemp challenges Vandergroat to a shoot out, which he declines. Continuing on, the group comes to a high-running river. When they argue about where to cross, Anderson throws a rope around Vandergroats neck and intends to drag him across the river. A fight ensues between Kemp and Anderson, as Vandergroat watches with malicious enjoyment. While Kemp and Anderson recover from the fight and Lina searches for firewood, Vandergroat convinces Tate to sneak off with him to find a gold mine, the whereabouts of which Vandergroat has been tempting the old man. When they sneak off during the night, he convinces Tate to include Lina.  Vandergroat and Lina ride double; Tate follows, holding a rifle on them. Vandergroat yells "Snake!" and in the confusion grabs Tates rifle then kills him. He positions Tates body on rocks beside a rushing river so he can ambush Kemp and Anderson. Lina finally accepts that he truly is a criminal. When Kemp and Anderson discover Tates body, Lina grabs Vandergroats rifle barrel, saving Kemps life. While Anderson exchanges gunfire with Vandergroat, Kemp removes one of his spurs to use as a climbing ax to get up the back of the cliff and outflank Vandergroat. Vandergroat hears Kemp and just as he aims at the rancher, Kemp throws his spur into the killers cheek. As Vandergroat reels from the pain, he is shot by Anderson and his body falls into the river, becoming entangled in the roots of a tree. Anderson lassos a branch on the other side of the river and crosses using the rope. He then wraps it around Vandergroats body but is crushed and carried off by a large floating log. Kemp drags Vandergroats body across the river and, in a rage, vows that he will take him back to reclaim his land. Lina pleads with him not to sell the body for money, but says she will go with him, no matter his choice, marry him, and live with him on the ranch. Kemp realizes what he is doing and his love for Lina makes him stop. He buries Vandergroat and the couple make for California, leaving their pasts behind.
The Naked Spur
1953