Lieutenant Danny Roman, a top Chicago Police Department hostage negotiator, is told by his partner, Nate Roenick that according to an informant whom he refuses to name, members of their own unit are defrauding large amounts of money from the departments disability fund, for which Roman is a board member. When Roman goes for another meeting, he finds Roenick dead seconds before other police arrive, pinning Roman as the prime suspect. Matters become worse for Roman when Internal Affairs investigator Terence Niebaum, whom Roenicks informant suspected of involvement in the embezzlement, is assigned to investigate the murder. After the gun that killed Roenick is linked to a case Roman had worked on, Niebaum and other investigators search Romans house and discover papers for an offshore bank account with a deposit equal to one of the amounts of money embezzled. Roman is forced to surrender his gun and badge, and his colleagues are skeptical of his protests of innocence. With embezzlement and homicide charges pending, Roman storms into Niebaums office and demands answers about who set him up. When Niebaum refuses to answer, Roman takes Niebaum, his administrative assistant Maggie, police commander Grant Frost and weak willed con man Rudy Timmons as hostages. With the building evacuated and placed under siege by his own CPD unit and the FBI, Roman issues his conditions: locating Roenicks informant and summoning lieutenant Chris Sabian, the citys other top negotiator. Roman believes he can trust Sabian, because he talks for as long as possible, sees tactical action as a last resort, and being from another precinct eliminates him as a suspect in the disability fund scheme. Sabian clashes with the CPD, but is given temporary command of the unit after they hastily attempt a breach that goes awry, resulting in two additional SWAT officers becoming Romans hostages, One of which they believe Danny has killed. Roman trades Frost to Sabian in exchange for restoring the buildings electricity, having been turned off after the hostage execution. With the help from Rudy and Maggie, Roman accesses Niebaums computer and pieces together the scheme; corrupt officers submitted false disability claims that were processed by an unknown insider on the disability funds board. He also discovers recordings of wiretaps, including a conversation that suggests Roenick was meeting his informant before he was killed. Sabian, using the information Roman provided, claims to have located Roenicks informant in a bid to get Roman to release the hostages. Roman realizes Sabian is bluffing when Niebaums files reveal Roenick himself was the IAD informant. When Roman threatens to expose Niebaum in an open window, leaving him vulnerable to sniper fire, Niebaum admits that Roenick gave him wiretaps implicating three of Romans squad mates, Hellman, Allen, and Argento in the embezzlement scheme. When Niebaum confronted the guilty officers, he received a bribe from them to cover up their crimes. They offered Roenick the same money, but when he refused to take it, their inside ringleader murdered him. Niebaum says he doesnt know who the ringleader is, but that he has the taps corroborating the three officers guilt. The same corrupt officers have secretly entered the room via the air vents under the pretext of being part of a team to take Roman out in case he started killing hostages; upon hearing Niebaums confession, they open fire and kill Niebaum before he can reveal where he has hidden the wiretaps. Roman single-handedly fends them and the rest of his squad off, using the flashbangs he seized from the two officers in the previous failed breach. Believing that Sabian and the police cannot resolve the situation, the FBI assume jurisdiction over the operation, cease negotiations, relieve Sabian of his command, and order a full breach. As Roman prepares for his eventual arrest, Maggie tells him that Niebaum also worked at his house and could have kept Roenicks wiretaps there. Sabian confronts Roman to warn him about the breach, and Roman reveals that the corrupt Officers murdered Niebaum and the executed hostage is still alive and gagged. Sabian begins to believe in Romans innocence and gives him a chance to prove his case: while the FBI and SWAT raid the building and rescue the hostages, Roman disguises himself as a SWAT member and escapes. Roman and Sabian proceed to Niebaums house, but they cant find the wiretaps. The police arrive and the corrupt officers enter the house, but they back off as Frost enters and tries to talk Roman down. Sabian observes Frost discreetly taking one of the loaded guns, and realizes that Frost is the ringleader of the conspiracy, the insider on the disability funds board and Roenicks killer. In front of Frost, Sabian seemingly kills Roman and offers to destroy the evidence they have uncovered in return for a cut of Frosts take. Frost agrees and effectively makes a full admission to his and the other three officers crimes. When Frost exits the house, he discovers that Sabian only wounded Roman who used a police radio microphone to broadcast his confession to the police surrounding the area. Humiliated, Frost attempts to commit suicide, only to be foiled and arrested by the police. As Roman is loaded into an ambulance, Sabian gives his badge to him and departs.
The Negotiator
1998