Wilde, whose character is never named, plays a professional safari guide leading two white men (Gert van den Bergh and Patrick Mynhardt) and their troupe on an elephant hunt through the African veldt during the colonial era. When the group intrudes on a local tribes territory, some natives accost them, expecting to be bought off with gifts. Although the guide advises his client to be courteous, warning "they could give us a bad time," the client refuses to offer anything and insults the natives, sending them away empty-handed. Later, the tribe returns en masse, captures the entire party, and puts the captives to death, using various cruel and unusual methods. One man is covered in clay and roasted alive on a spit; another is tarred, feathered, and trussed, then chased and killed by all the women. The man who insulted the tribesmen is trapped in a ring of fire with a poisonous snake. Wildes character is spared until the last. He is stripped naked and then an arrow is fired into the air. Wildes character then runs and once he passes the arrow is chased by one tribesman who must reach the arrow before the next tribesman can join in the hunt. His pursuer throws a spear at him and misses, which he uses to kill his pursuer and take his supplies. Wildes character then flees, and a multi-day chase ensues. One by one, the pursuers fall; either killed by the guide, or taken out of the chase by wild animals. He eventually finds food and water, though initially forced to eat a snake after several failed hunts. Eventually, he comes across a village and camps nearby, only to be awoken by the gunfire of slavers of African descent. Amidst the chaos of the melee, he meets an African girl who is hiding from the slavers. With the slavers closing in on their location, he runs out for the sake of diversion. He eventually escapes at a river, but nearly drowns in the process. Luckily, the girl from earlier finds him on the river bank and coaxes the water out of his lungs. She travels with him for a day or two, and as they walk along, he sings a nineteenth-century drinking song, "Little Brown Jug". The child sings a song in her own language. and they then attempt to sing each others songs. They part ways near a village, and some time later the guide returns to a colonial fort just seconds ahead of his pursuers. As he reaches safety, the man turns and exchanges a salute with their leader (Ken Gampu).
The Naked Prey
1965