Sixteen-year-old aspiring model Jesse has just moved from small-town Georgia to Los Angeles. She meets photographer Dean, who does her first shoot, and makeup artist Ruby, who introduces fellow older models Sarah and Gigi. The three women are intrigued by Jesses natural beauty and curious about her sexual proclivities. Jesse feigns experience in the latter. Jesse is signed by Roberta Hoffman, the owner of a modelling agency, who tells her to pretend she is nineteen and refers her to a test shoot with notable photographer Jack McCarther. Jesse goes on a date with Dean, but keeps his advances at bay. She returns to her motel room to find it ransacked and occupied by a mountain lion. Jesse goes to the photo shoot with Jack, who covers her naked body in gold paint. The shoot is successful, and Gigi and Sarah begin envying Jesses youth, while Ruby is fascinated with her. Jesse goes to a casting call for fashion designer Robert Sarno, where Sarah is also present. He pays no attention to Sarah but is entranced by Jesse. A distraught Sarah asks her how it feels to be the one everyone admires. Jesse admits, "Its everything." Sarah lunges toward her, and Jesse accidentally cuts her hand on glass. Sarah immediately sucks the blood from Jesses hand. Jesse rushes back to her motel and faints, hallucinating strange images. Dean arrives and treats Jesses wound. At Sarnos fashion show, Gigi tells Jesse about all the cosmetic surgery she has had done, and expresses disbelief that Jesse has not used casting couches to achieve success. As Jesse is closing the show, she sees a vision of the glowing triangle she saw before in her hallucination. After the show, a visibly-changed Jesse goes out with Dean to a bar. There, Sarno denigrates women who have cosmetic surgery, using a humiliated Gigi as an example. In contrast, he praises Jesses natural looks. Dean challenges this view and tries to convince Jesse to leave, but she rejects him, now displaying a narcissistic new persona. Jesse has a nightmare of being forced to sexually swallow a knife. She wakes up in time to hear someone fidgeting with her door lock. She quickly turns the lock, but is left to listen as the intruder breaks into the next room and assaults the female occupant. Terrified, she calls Ruby, who tells her to come over. Ruby tries to initiate sex with her, but Jesse rejects her, revealing herself to be a virgin. Ruby draws a diagram on Jesses mirror and leaves for her second job as a makeup artist at a morgue, where she pleasures herself with a female corpse. Ruby returns home and finds Jesse now unabashed in her narcissism. Jesse is attacked by Gigi and Sarah. Ruby pushes Jesse into a huge empty swimming pool, breaking her leg. The three women approach her with knives. Ruby is then seen in a bath full of Jesses blood; Sarah and Gigi are shown washing blood off in the shower. Later, Ruby is revealed to have occult tattoos. She lies in Jesses unmarked grave as part of a ritual that culminates in her living room, where a torrent of blood gushes from her genitals. The next day, Sarah drives Gigi to one of Jacks photoshoots with another model named Annie. Jack wanders to the living room and is suddenly enthralled with Sarah and fires Annie on the spot. In the midst of the shoot, Gigi feels ill and leaves. Sarah watches Gigi vomit up one of Jesses eyeballs. She screams with regret, "I need to get her out of me", and stabs herself with a pair of scissors. Sarah watches Gigi die, eats the regurgitated eyeball, and walks off into the sunset.
The Neon Demon
2016