The dull, workaday life at the small American Navy weather station based on Gow Island in the South Pacific is interrupted by the pending arrival of a C-47 transport aircraft for refueling. Aboard the plane are a team of scientists, an Air Force flight crew, and a cargo of specimen finds from their completed expedition to the Antarctic. Then, on approach, something moving in the cargo area jolts the plane, and the crewman sent to investigate comes back out, screaming, and jumps from the plane. At the base, the transports radio goes out on more sounds of screaming and shots fired, and the descending plane suddenly weaves, veers and crash lands on the islands single airstrip, destroying its control tower and the islands only two-way radio. The damaged aircraft also blocks the runway, preventing its further use. Lieutenant Charles Brown (Eisley) is in command of Gows weather station. He, Navy nurse Nora Hall (Van Doren), and biologist Arthur Beecham (Walter Sande) reach the wreck only to find that the seven scientists and most of the crew aboard the cargo aircraft when it left Antarctica are now mysteriously missing. The only one found aboard is the transports pilot, who is traumatized and in a state of shock, unable to speak. The cargo consists primarily of a few penguins, plus several prehistoric trees taken from a thermal basis found in the midst of the frozen tundra. Unloading the cargo from the crashed C-47, Dr. Beecham recommends planting the trees to ensure their survival in the islands tropical conditions. That night, a tropical storm ravages the island. Somewhat later, Gow Islands bird population becomes disturbed by something unknown. The weather stations scientists try to figure out a connection between this event and a corrosive residue that begins turning up at various island locations. It slowly becomes clear that the planted prehistoric trees have grown into acid-secreting, carnivorous monsters that move about Gow Island at night, at will. They reproduce fast and eventually cut off the island with their growing numbers and nocturnal assaults on Gows native fauna. They also turn their attentions on the human population, for food. Brown has to hold together his dwindling Navy personnel and the coterie of scientists and civilians while figuring out a way to stop this prehistoric menace. The Navy personnels only available weapons prove largely ineffective against the tree monsters, but when the civilian meteorologist, Spaulding (Edward Faulkner) tries using "Molotov cocktails" in a sincere effort to help, they realize that fire is the one thing that will surely demolish the monsters. Eventually, the weather station is able to restore radio contact with the mainland and ask for help. In response, the military command sends in multiple aircraft strikes from their nearest base. Fighter jets drop both napalm and fire air-to-ground missiles at the slow-moving night monsters, setting them ablaze. As a result, the threat to Gow Islands surviving personnel is quickly eliminated, and Brown and Nora are free to pursue a romance which has developed in the course of fighting the menace.
The Navy vs. the Night Monsters
1966