King Henry VIIIs marriage to Catherine of Aragon becomes troubled as she does not produce a male heir to the throne, having only one surviving child, Mary. Annes younger sister, Mary Boleyn, marries William Carey. After the festivities, Thomas Howard, Duke of Norfolk and his brother-in-law Thomas Boleyn, plan to install Boleyns eldest daughter, Anne Boleyn, as the kings mistress, with the hope that Anne will bear him a son and that shell be able to improve her familys wealth and status. Annes mother, Lady Elizabeth Boleyn, is disgusted by the plot, but Anne eventually agrees as a way to please her father and uncle. While visiting the Boleyn estate, Henry is injured in a hunting accident that was indirectly caused by Anne. Urged by her scheming uncle, Mary nurses Henry. Henry becomes smitten with Mary and invites her to court, to which Mary and her husband reluctantly agree, aware that the king has invited her because he desires her. Mary and Anne become ladies-in-waiting to Queen Catherine and Henry sends William Carey abroad on an assignment. Separated from her husband, Mary begins an affair with the king and finds herself falling in love with him. Anne secretly marries the nobleman Henry Percy, although he is already betrothed to Lady Mary Talbot. Anne confides in her brother, George Boleyn, about the marriage. Overjoyed, George proceeds to tell Mary. Fearing Anne will ruin the Boleyn family by marrying such a prominent earl without the kings consent, Mary alerts her father and uncle. They confront Anne, forcebly annul the marriage, and exile her to France. Mary eventually becomes pregnant with Henrys child. Her family receives new grants and estates, their debts are paid, and Henry arranges Georges marriage to Jane Parker. When Mary nearly suffers a miscarriage, she is confined to bed until her child is born. Norfolk recalls Anne to England and is tasked to keep Henrys attention from wandering to another rival while Mary is confined. Believing that Mary had her exiled to increase her own status, Anne gets back at her by successfully winning Henry over. When Mary gives birth to a son, Henry Carey, Thomas and Norfolk are overjoyed, but the celebration is short lived as Anne tells Henry that the baby is born a bastard and that, for her to accept his advances, he must stop talking to Mary. This infuriates Norfolk, as the king refuses to acknowledge the child as his heir. Henry then has Mary sent to the countryside at Annes request. Shortly after, Mary is widowed. Anne encourages Henry to break from the Catholic Church when the Pope refuses to annul his marriage to Queen Catherine. Henry succumbs to Annes demands, declares himself Supreme Head of the Church of England, and gets Cardinal Thomas Wolsey to annul the marriage. Having done all of Annes requests, Henry comes to Annes room, but she still refuses to have sex with him until they are married. In a fit of rage, he rapes her. A pregnant Anne marries Henry to please her family and becomes Queen of England. As a wife, Henry slowly starts despising her, and, as a queen, she is hated by the public, being deemed a witch. Despite the birth of a healthy daughter, Elizabeth, Henry blames Anne for not producing a son and begins courting Jane Seymour in secret. After Anne suffers the miscarriage of a son, she begs George to have sex with her to replace the child she lost, for fear of being passed over by Henry and be burned as a witch. George at first reluctantly agrees, realizing that it is Annes only hope, but they do not go through with it. However, Georges neglected wife Jane, under orders by Norfolk to spy on Anne, witnesses enough of their encounter to become suspicious. She reports what she has seen, and both Anne and George are arrested. The two are found guilty and sentenced to death for treason, adultery, and incest. Distraught by the news of the execution of George, his mother disowns her husband and brother, vowing never to forgive them for what their greed has done to her children. After Mary learns that she was late for Georges execution, she returns to court to plead for Annes life. Believing that Henry will spare her sister, she leaves to see Anne right before the scheduled execution. Anne asks Mary to take care of her daughter Elizabeth if anything should happen to her. Mary watches from the crowd as Anne makes her final speech, waiting for the execution to be cancelled as Henry promised. A letter from Henry is given to Mary, warning her not to come to his court anymore, and implicitly revealing his decision to execute Anne after all. Ten days after Annes execution, Henry and Jane Seymour are married. Norfolk is imprisoned and the next three generations of his family are executed for treason. Mary marries William Stafford and they have two children, Anne and Edward. Mary takes an active role in raising Annes daughter Elizabeth, who grows up to become the future Queen of England, and reigns for 44 years.
The Other Boleyn Girl (2008 film)
2008