Thomas Webb (Callum Turner) is a college graduate who is still trying to figure out what he wants to do with his life and has a one-sided crush on his friend Mimi (Kiersey Clemons). One day, he meets his new neighbour, W.F. (Jeff Bridges), with whom he suddenly feels a connection. Thomas begins to spend time with W.F. and tells him about his life. When Thomas hangs out in a bar with Mimi one day, they see his father, Ethan (Pierce Brosnan) together with another woman (Kate Beckinsale). Fearing that the affair would take a toll on his already mentally unstable mother, Judith (Cynthia Nixon), Thomas starts to follow and finally confronts the woman. He is surprised when the other woman, Johanna, actually knows who Thomas is. She tells him that she is a freelance editor working with his father and knows Thomas from his picture in Ethans office. After some time following and pleading with her to leave his father, Johanna mentions that Thomas is still a child who doesnt know anything, including the fact that he actually wants to sleep with her. Telling this to W.F., W.F. asks if he really wants to sleep with her and Thomas reluctantly says that he does. When attending a friends party, Thomas bumps into Johanna with another man. Having an argument after Thomas makes a crude remark about her, Thomas surprisingly kisses her which ends up with them making out passionately. An affair starts and Thomas begins to fall for Johanna. He tells her that since he was a child, he has aspired to be a writer but Thomass dream was crushed when his father told him that his essays were only serviceable. One day, when Thomas looks for W.F. in his apartment, he finds a manuscript titled The Only Living Boy in New York and that W.F. is actually a successful (although somewhat reclusive) writer. Thomas shows him his essays, and W.F. tells him that he does have a talent for writing. Thomas invites W.F. to a party at his fathers publishing company to which the writer reluctantly agrees. Thomas goes together with Mimi who begins to show feelings towards him. She asks him if he is having an affair with Johanna, which he denies. Thomas sees W.F. at the party and wants to introduce him to his mother, but W.F. suddenly disappears. Later, W.F. meets with Johanna and warns her not to hurt Thomas. Johanna ends her relationship with Thomas, because Ethan has proposed to her. Angered by this, Thomas confronts his father while Johanna tries to dissuade him. Ethan is angered and leaves the room. Johanna tearfully tells Thomas that she really is in love with Ethan. She tells him that Thomas really doesnt know anything, and shows a picture of Thomas in a tennis match, with W.F. captured in the background. Thomas confronts W.F. and he tells him that he was a close friend of his parents. As Ethan is infertile, he and Judith asked W.F. for a favor: to conceive a child with Judith. Spending a drunken night together, W.F. realized that he is in love with Judith, and so he left her. He has always watched Thomas from afar, hoping to connect with his son. Upon returning home, Thomas finds that Ethan has already ended his relationship with Judith. He tells his mother that hes been in contact with W.F., and that he knows Judith has been in love with W.F. for 25 years. One year later, Thomas is working in a bookstore, while trying to get his writing published. Ethan comes to the bookstore and the two catch up. Ethan offers to help Thomas using his connections, which Thomas declines. Thomas asks if Ethan is still in contact with Johanna, and he says no but admits hes lying. Thomas finds Judith at a reading, listening while W. F. reads The Only Living Boy in New York. Thomas watches them and smiles, as his mother has finally found her happiness.
The Only Living Boy in New York (film)
2017