As movie star Frankie Fane (Boyd) is about to hear if he won a best acting Oscar, his friend Hymie Kelly (Bennett) reminisces about Fanes struggle to the top, beginning as a spieler for his stripper girlfriend Laurel (St. John). After moving to New York, Frankie dumps Laurel for a budding fashion designer, Kay Bergdahl (Sommer), which leads to a chance meeting with talent scout Sophie Cantaro (Parker). Sophie arranges for him to be signed with agent "Kappy" Kapstetter (Berle) and brings Frankie to Hollywood, where he quickly becomes a rising star. At each turn, Fane is an unprincipled heel, using and hurting others and causing them to recoil from him. He impulsively persuades Kay to marry him in Tijuana, but treats her cruelly thereafter. Frankie buys expensive homes and cars while offending the studio chief, Regan, until his life goes into a tailspin when he suddenly becomes "box office poison." At his low ebb, he unexpectedly receives an Oscar nomination, which Kappy believes is the result of Fanes portrayal of a "man without morals," therefore portraying himself. In order to ensure his victory, he secretly employs the services of a crooked private investigator (Borgnine), who leaks information that should influence voters to sympathize with Fane and support his Oscar candidacy. Fane doesnt care that the scandal smears the reputations of Kelly and Laurel as well. An enraged Kelly confronts him, telling how he married Laurel, who then died during an abortion while pregnant with a child fathered by Fane. And the private eye Yale also blackmails Fane, who must desperately turn to Yales ex-wife (Adams) for help to keep his ruse from being exposed. The moment of truth comes at the Academy Awards, as presenter Merle Oberon (playing herself) announces the winner. As she states the name "Frank," Fane rises instantaneously, prepared to bolt to the stage; she then immediately follows with "Sinatra." As Frank Sinatra moves towards the stage, Fane is left stunned and crestfallen, clapping his hands weakly, while everyone in the assemblage whom he has wronged enjoys the comeuppance for this wholly self-absorbed, unfeeling individual.
The Oscar (film)
1966