The cartoon starts with Elmer sitting under a tree, crying over his failure to catch Bugs. The "voice of God" (also the voice of Mel Blanc) tells Elmer to keep trying to catch him. Elmer wonders how long it will it take-and is shown exactly how long by being transported "far into the future" past the years 1950, 1960, 1970, 1980, 1990, until reaching the then-distant year of A.D. 2000. This offers the chance to use some contemporary gags with a futuristic twist, as Elmer finds a year 2000 newspaper. One headline says, "Smellevision Replaces Television: Carl Stalling Sez It Will Never Work!" In sporting news, another headline says, "Bing Crosbys Horse Hasnt Come In Yet!" (Crosby was known for investing in racehorses that did poorly). By now, both Elmer and Bugs are very old and wrinkled ("Whats up, Prune Face?") - Bugs even has a large white beard and a cane – and lumbago – but their chase resumes. This time Elmer is armed with an "owiginal Buck Wogers wightning-way wabbit kiwwer" gun. After a short chase (at slow speed, due to their ages), Elmer gets the upper hand, shooting Bugs with his ultra-modern weapon. At the moment when it seems Elmer has finally beaten his nemesis, the apparently dying Bugs thinks back to when he and Elmer were much younger. This leads to a flashback sequence with a baby Elmer hunting a baby Bugs (both are still in diapers; Bugs is drinking carrot juice from a baby bottle; Elmer is crawling and toting a pop-gun; and they interrupt their chase to take a baby nap-time together). After the flashback is over, a tearful Bugs starts to dig his own grave, with Elmer getting equally emotional (while literally sobbing along to the tune of "Träumerei" by Robert Schumann). Just at the point where it seems that Bugs is going to bury himself, he switches places with the weeping and distracted Elmer and cheerfully buries him alive instead ("So long, Methuselah!") The buried Elmer quips, "Weww anyway, that pesky wabbit is out of my wife [life] fowevew and evew!" However, Bugs suddenly pops in and repeats the popular catchphrase of the "Richard Q. Peavey" character from The Great Gildersleeve, "Well, now, I wouldnt say that," plants a kiss on Elmer, then hands him a large firecracker, lights the fuse and quickly departs. While Elmer shivers and does not do anything, he gives out a long, horrifying shriek as the screen immediately fades out and Robert Clampetts famous vocalized "Bay-woop!" is heard with the firecracker still hissing. The ending "Thats all, Folks!" card appears with it having been already pre-written, and the firecracker blows up in a tremendous explosion off-screen, rumbling and shaking the on-screen end title card, regardless of what happened to Elmer after the explosion.
The Old Grey Hare
1944