Carly Whitten (Cameron Diaz), a New York attorney, has just started a relationship with Mark King (Nikolaj Coster-Waldau), a man she had sex with eight weeks earlier. She is upset when Mark tells her he has to go out of town on account of a flood at his Connecticut home, but she decides to go over to his house to seduce him. She is horrified to meet Marks wife, Kate (Leslie Mann), whom shed originally assumed to be Marks housekeeper. While initially hostile, the two women befriend one another. Kate then discovers that he is seeing yet another woman, whom she at first believes to be Carly, but they both discover that Mark is seeing a third woman: Amber (Kate Upton). Carly and Kate follow Mark and travel to The Hamptons, where they stay at the house of Kate’s brother, Phil (Taylor Kinney). The duo run into Amber on the beach, and the two women inform her that Mark has been cheating on all of them. All three women then decide to take revenge on him together. Kate spikes his smoothies with estrogen pills to swell his nipples, has their dog lick his toothbrush before soaking it in their toilet, and adds hair-removal cream into his shampoo; Carly spikes his water with a laxative to cause him to defecate heavy diarrhea; Amber uses an ugly drag queen sexual partner against him. In the course of carrying out the womens vicious pranks, they also discover that Mark has been embezzling money from various companies at his workplace. Meanwhile, Carly begins to connect romantically and feel a bond with Phil. The women’s camaraderie begins to fall apart when Kate finds herself falling in love with Mark again after an investors dinner. Carly exposes Marks fraud, upsetting Kate. Later, when Mark goes to the Bahamas on a supposed business trip, Kate decides to follow him there and expose him. She finds Carly and Amber at the airport, who explain that Mark has been using Kate as the owner of the companies he defrauded from, which would—were his fraud to be discovered—result in her going to prison. Kate also finds out that Mark has been seeing yet another woman: someone he has met on this trip. This, and the possibility of him facing prison, motivates her to take action with the help of Carlys legal expertise. In addition, Amber confides to Carly that she is seeing someone else as well. When Mark returns from vacation, he visits Carly at her office. He is then locked in a clear glass conference room by Carlys assistant and friend, Lydia (Nicki Minaj), and is stunned to see all three women sitting in there together. They proceed to confront him with his infidelities and embezzlement. With Carly as her attorney, Kate presents divorce papers and a list of their assets. She reveals how she, as a CEO, has returned all of Marks embezzled money to the companies he robbed, which saves them both from prison time but leaves him bankrupt, much to his shock and hysterical outrage. Marks business partner, Nick (David Thornton), then arrives and acknowledges Kate’s work after firing Mark. Fuming, Mark excuses himself from the three women, who all applaud each other. In his furious anger and rush to leave, he charges into an empty glass room which breaks his nose, cutting himself, and ripping his clothes. Afterwards, he finds his car being towed away before also receiving a punch in the face from Carlys father, Frank (Don Johnson). In the films epilogue, Kate takes over Marks previous job with Nick and is a CEO of several successful companies, making big profits under her honest leadership. Carly and Phil fall in love, and the couple are expecting a child. Amber and Frank are married and traveling the world together.
The Other Woman (2014 film)
2014