Frank Chambers (John Garfield) is a hobo who stops at a rural diner for a meal and ends up working there. The diner is operated by a beautiful young woman, Cora Smith (Lana Turner), and her much older husband, Nick (Cecil Kellaway). Frank and Cora start to have an affair soon after they meet. Cora is tired of her situation, married to a man she does not love and working at a diner that she wishes to own. After first contemplating running away together, they instead decide to murder Nick in order to keep the diner. They plan to bludgeon Nick to death and pretend that he hit his head while taking bath. The plan goes awry when a police officer stops by and a cat causes a power outage. Cora knocks Nick over the head but merely injures him. Nick returns from the hospital and Cora is determined to live out her life with him. However, Nick surprises Cora with the news that he has agreed to sell the diner and that they will be moving in with his infirm sister in Canada. Unwilling to leave her life behind, Cora conspires with Frank to kill her husband, this time by getting him drunk and staging a car accident. They succeed in killing Nick but Frank is seriously injured. Cora is discovered by the District Attoeney, Kyle Sackett (Leon Ames), who had followed them from the diner. As a tactic intended to get Cora and Frank to turn on each other, he files murder charges against only Cora. Although they turn against each other, a clever ploy from Coras lawyer (Hume Cronyn) prevents Coras full confession from coming into the hands of the prosecutor. With the tactic having failed to generate any new evidence for the prosecution, Cora benefits from a plea bargain in which she pleads guilty to manslaughter and receives probation. Frank and Cora patch up their relationship and the publicity from the murder makes their diner a raging success. Kennedy, an investigator who used to work for Coras lawyer, attempts to blackmail them with her confession but she and Frank beat him up and force him to give them the copies. After an argument, Cora reveals to Frank that she is pregnant and speculates that bringing a new life into the world may help make up for the one they took. The two spend the dayat the beach and agree to rededicate themselves to each other. On the drive home, Frank becomes distracted by Cora and crashes the car, killing her. Frank is tried and convicted for Coras murder, despite protesting his innocence. While on death row, he is visited by Sackett who confronts him with the evidence of his involvement in Nicks murder. Frank accepts that while he is innocent of Coras murder, his execution will be fitting punishment for his murder of Nick. He muses that just as the postman always rings a second time to make sure people receive their mail, he and Cora have both eventually paid the price for their crimes.
The Postman Always Rings Twice (1946 film)
1946