In Paris in 1880, Georges Duroy, an ex-soldier working as a poorly paid clerk, encounters his former comrade-in-arms, sickly journalist Charles Forestier. Rachel, already rebuffed once by Georges, sits down at their cafe table. After Georges rudely dismisses her, Charles tells him the quickest way to better himself in Paris is by using his charms on women. Charles then suggests he seek a vacancy at his newspaper, La Vie Française, despite having no writing experience. Georges then takes Charles advice and goes to Rachel. He meets widow Clotilde de Marelle at a dinner party hosted by Charles and his wife. Charles publisher is also a guest; he asks Georges for a sample article by the next day. Georges has great difficulty organizing his work, so he asks Charles for assistance the next morning. Charles sends him to see his wife Madeleine, as he has trained her. She helps him land the job. She also suggests he call on her friend Clotilde. He takes Clotilde dancing at a raucous nightspot. The singer there sings "Bel Ami", which is about a scoundrel. Clotilde calls Georges Bel Ami; he promises to live up (or down) to that name. While they are out one night, Rachel spots them and makes a scene. Afterward, Clotilde writes Georges a letter in which she confesses she loves him so much that there is nothing she cannot forgive him. At work, Charles states he has trained Georges to be his successor; his health is deteriorating. Georges tells Madeleine that he has fallen a little in love with her. She wants only to remain his friend. Georges then tells her of his idea: to write a gossip column, filled with innuendo and rumors. Madeleine thinks this is a magnificent plan. Georges gains another admirer in Suzanne Walter, the 16-year-old daughter of his employer, and an enemy, the politician Laroche-Mathieu. Clotilde informs him that the wealthy, good Jacques Rival has proposed to her, but that she wants to marry him. He tells her that he must either conquer Paris or be conquered. He states his heart tells him that he could be happy with her, but he has not listened to it "in a long time." After Charles dies, Georges proposes to Madeleine. She accepts, but insists it be a marriage of equals. The column is a great success. Georges becomes powerful, and Madeleine presides over an influential salon. Georges juggles not only the affections of Madeleine and Clotilde, but also those of Madame Walter, a woman of impeccable, virtuous reputation. Georges soon distances himself from her, as she proves to be madly, indiscreetly smitten. She gives him some news. Her husband and Laroche-Mathieu have fed him false information; the government is about to seize Morocco, contrary to what he has written in his column. The schemers will benefit financially from their manipulation of him. The Walters invite the Duroys to their home to a viewing of a celebrated and costly painting. Suzanne, now a sought-after heiress, is delighted to see him. Seeing Madeleine and Laroche-Mathieu conversing at the gathering gives Georges an idea. Laroche-Mathieu is attracted to Madeleine, so he asks her to lead the foreign minister on to gain information and ensure that he does not deceive Georges again, at least that is what he tells her. He then uses this as grounds for divorce, so he can marry Suzanne. Her father is outraged, and her mother aghast. Upon further consideration, however, and for his daughters happiness, he gives his consent. This is too much for Clotilde to stand. According to French law, a person can appropriate a noble name if there are no known survivors. Georges does just that. Madame Walter, however, locates Philippe de Cantel, the last descendant, though too late. He challenges Georges to a duel, two weeks before his marriage. Before the duel, Georges professes to Clotilde that there are only two people he loves: her and her young daughter. Clotilde goes to the Walters to try to stop the duel, but the two men fatally shoot each other. Just before he dies, Georges regrets not being happy with Clotilde.
The Private Affairs of Bel Ami
1947