King Rudolf IV (Sellers) dies in a balloon accident upon the celebration of his seventieth birthday. In order to secure the throne, General Sapt and his nephew Fritz travel to London, where the Kings son, Rudolf V (Sellers), resides and lives through the day in Londons pleasure establishments; but the Kings demented half-brother Michael (Kemp), thinking that he is the better claimant, sends an assassin after them. Hansom cab driver Sydney (or Sidney) Frewin (Sellers), the new Kings half-brother from an affair with a British actress, rescues Rudolf from an assassination attempt. Once his resemblance to the King is noticed, Frewin is hired by the general ostensibly as the Kings coachman, but actually to play the role of decoy. The ruse is quickly uncovered, however, when during an attack by Michaels men the royal guardsmen address Frewin as their new king, and the two look-alikes get acquainted. In an unattended moment, Rudolf is captured and brought to Michaels castle of Zenda. Out of necessity, Frewin has to keep masquerading as the King for the coronation ceremony. Princess Flavia, Rudolfs fiancée (Frederick), is perceptive enough to see through the ruse, and after Frewin and the general have confided in her, she quickly becomes Frewins trusted ally and love interest. Complicating the scheme on Frewins side is the jealous Count Montparnasse whose wife (Sommer) has become infatuated with Rudolf, and on Michaels side by his mistress, Antoinette, who is wildly jealous about the prospect of Michael marrying Flavia and in turn is the love interest of the slightly unbalanced Rupert von Henzau, Michaels second-in-command. After several assassination attempts, Michael attempts to lure Frewin into a trap. While the trap fails, Frewin, acting as Henzaus coach driver, is recognized and captured upon arrival in Zenda. Frewin and Rudolf escape with Antoinettes help, and when Sapt and his men arrive at the castle, Henzau switches sides and aids Frewin and Rudolf against Michael, opens the castle gates and rides away, telling Sapt that he will report for duty next week. Michael and his men attempt to capture Rudolf and Frewin, but they jump off the battlements into the moat, and Sapt has Michael arrested for his treachery. Assuming Frewins identity, Rudolf pursues his interests in the countess and the London gambling tables, while Frewin marries Princess Flavia and becomes king of Ruritania.
The Prisoner of Zenda (1979 film)
1979