On March 21, 2023, the media credits the annual purge, a 12-hour period wherein all crimes are legal without authorities intervening, as an economic success. Everywhere, people either prepare to barricade themselves indoors or commit acts of violence. The nations impoverished population is no longer seen as people, but as living garbage, whom the wealthy denounce as only living to serve their needs. However, before the sixth annual purge begins, a successful anti-purge resistance group led by Carmelo Johns and his partner, the Stranger from the first film - revealed as "Dwayne" - hijack government feeds to denounce the New Founding Fathers and their actions. In Los Angeles, working-class waitress Eva Sanchez returns home to her 17 year old daughter Cali and terminally ill father Rico, who also despises the New Founding Fathers. Rico slips out to a waiting limousine, leaving a note for his family revealing that he has sold himself as a purge offering in exchange for $100,000 to be paid to Eva and Cali after the purge. Married couple Shane and Liz visit a grocery store, only to be ambushed by a masked gang of bikers. As they drive away to avoid them, their car breaks down, as the biker gang had cut their fuel line. Meanwhile, an off-duty Los Angeles Police Department sergeant, Leo Barnes, plans to join the purge to avenge the death of his son against the advice of his ex-wife, and goes out to the streets heavily armed, posing as a vigilante. As Shane and Liz try to find safer hiding places, the purge commences. Eva and Cali are attacked by their lustful superintendent Diego, but he is gunned down by a paramilitary platoon, which captures the women to offer them to their leader Big Daddy for his own personal purge. The sergeant rescues them after killing the troops and wounding Big Daddy. They find Shane and Liz hiding in the sergeants car. The group flees just as Big Daddy fires at them, damaging the car. As the sergeants car breaks down, the group flees on foot to reach the home of Evas co-worker Tanya, and borrow her car. As they navigate the hostile streets, they find evidence that the antipurge group has been gaining the upper hand against the purgers. After freeing Shane from a trap and taking guns from an abandoned van, they head to the subways. A pyrotechnic purging gang invades the subways and sets hiding people on fire, causing chaos. Shane is wounded, but the group manages to escape. After running for their lives, Eva unknowingly signals a traffic camera to identify them to the NFFA troops who pick up the location of Tanyas apartment building. The group reaches Tanyas house, but learns no car is there. Tanyas family takes them in, offering dinner and medicine. However, Tanyas sister Lorraine proceeds to murder her sister for sleeping with her husband. The group leaves the family to their fate, only to be captured by the masked gang, which takes them to a theater where upper-class purgers bid them for human hunting. In the purging arena, the sergeant fights back, killing the hunters. The host purger calls for backup and security forces kill Shane. The antipurge group invades the arena and kills more of the purging team. Liz chooses to join the antipurge group to avenge Shanes death. The sergeant hijacks the host purgers car and threatens her before leaving. The sergeant, Eva, and Cali drive up to a suburban neighborhood, and stop at the home of Warren Grass. He reveals that Grass killed his son while driving under the influence, but was acquitted. He ventures into the house, threatening Warren and his wife. The next scene shows the sergeant exiting the house covered in blood, only to be shot by Big Daddy, who reveals that the New Founding Fathers have secretly dispatched death squads to increase the body count because the purge eliminates too few of the lower class, possibly due to purgers murdering those they have personal grudges against and not just random people. Just as he is about to kill the sergeant, Warren appears and kills Big Daddy with his .45, revealing that the sergeant chose to spare him. As Big Daddys death squad appears, sirens blare to signal the end of the purge. Warren drives Eva, Cali, and the sergeant to the hospital as news and police helicopters fly over the city.
The Purge: Anarchy
2014