In 1890s London Robert Angier and Alfred Borden work as shills for Milton the Magician, alongside stage engineer (ingénieur) Cutter and assistant Julia, Angiers wife. Miltons famous trick is the water tank trick, where Julia is bound in ropes and dropped in a water tank from which she frees herself. When Borden ties her hands with a riskier slip knot, Julia fails to slip the knot and drowns, devastating Angier and fueling his deep-seated grudge against Borden. Angier and Borden part ways and launch their own solo magic careers. However, they both work to sabotage each others acts. Borden develops a trick he calls "The Transported Man," where he instantly travels between two wardrobes on opposite ends of a stage. Angier discovers the trick and steals it for himself. Not knowing how it is performed he hires Root to double for him. "The New Transported Man" is a huge success, but Angier is displeased, as he ends the trick hidden under the stage while Root basks in the applause. Obsessed with Bordens secret, Angier orders his assistant Olivia to spy on him. However, Olivia falls in love with Borden and aids him with his show. When confronted by Angier she gives him a copy of Bordens diary, which he decodes with the help of Cutter and Bordens kidnapped ingénieur. The codeword, a secret to Bordens success, is revealed to be Tesla. Angier decides to travel to America and meet scientist Nikola Tesla. Meanwhile, Bordens wife, Sarah, becomes depressed over his fickle and contradictory ways and commits suicide. Angier asks Tesla to build him the machine he built for Borden. Angier discovers Bordens diary is fraudulent. Borden ordered Olivia to give Angier the diary to send him away. Angier confronts Tesla, who admits to never having built any device for Borden but has successfully built a replicating machine for Angier, capable of reproducing animate and inanimate objects a distance from the machine. As Tesla departs, he advises Angier to destroy the machine. Returning to London, Angier debuts The Real Transported Man where he vanishes within the machine and appears atop the balcony at the back of the hall. Baffled by the tricks success, Borden sneaks backstage, only to witness Angier drop through a trap door and plunge into a waiting water tank. Cutter stumbles upon the scene and Borden is arrested. Borden is found guilty of murder and sentenced to death. In prison, Borden is visited by an agent of a Lord Caldlow, who offers to care for Bordens daughter Jess in exchange for all of Bordens tricks. He agrees to the terms and surrenders all his secrets. Lord Caldlow visits Borden revealing himself as being Angier. Baffled, Borden begs for his life, but Angier ignores his pleas. Borden is hanged and dies. Cutter learns that Caldlow has bought Angiers machine. When he visits him to plead for its destruction, he discovers Caldlows identity. Although disgusted, Cutter agrees to help him dispose of the machine in his theater. After Cutter leaves a stranger enters the theater and shoots Angier. He reveals himself as Bordens twin brother. "Alfred Borden" is the identity they both assumed as part of their act and maintained outside the stage. One twin loved Sarah, while the other loved Olivia. They both took turns being the "Transported Man". Angier dies as his fallen lantern sets the theater on fire. Borden picks up Jess at Cutters workshop. A final glimpse of the burning theater shows rows of water tanks containing rotting duplicates of Angier.
The Prestige (film)
2006