A young Charlie Roan and her family are tied up by a masked purger. He taunts them with his "purge playlist", and then tells them they will play a final purge game called "Mommys Choice." He then proceeds to kill the rest of Charlies family and leaves her as the only survivor. Eighteen years later, Roan is a U.S. Senator campaigning for the U.S. Presidency, promising to end the annual purge nights. Former police sergeant Leo Barnes is now head of security for Roan. The New Founding Fathers of Americas (NFFA) leader, Caleb Warrens and their candidate, Minister Edwidge Owens, view Roan as a threat and decide to revoke immunity on government officials during the purge. Watching the presidential debate are deli owner Joe Dixon, his assistant Marcos, and EMT Laney Rucker. A pair of teenage girls enters the store and shoplifts, only to be cornered by Joe. The girls mock Joe until Laney intervenes, at which point they surrender their stolen goods and leave. Joe later receives a phone call stating that his insurance premiums for purge coverage have been raised beyond his affordability. Joe decides to guard his store himself, despite Marcos and Laneys pleas not to. On the night of the purge, Joe guards his store and is joined by Marcos, and together they manage to repel an attack by the teenage girls. Laney and her partner Dawn patrol the city in an ambulance, providing medical care to the wounded. Roan decides to wait out the purge from her home rather than a secure location to secure the vote, and is accompanied by Barnes, Chief Couper, Eric, and additional security forces. However, a betrayal by Chief Couper and Eric allows a paramilitary force led by Earl Danzinger to kill the security detail and invade the house. Barnes escorts the Senator to safety, but is wounded in the process. He detonates a bomb in the house, killing Eric and Chief Couper. Barnes and the Senator attempt to seek shelter, but are ambushed by a gang of purgers and taken captive. Before they are executed, Joe and Marcos shoot the gang dead, having seen the pairs plight from the stores rooftop. As they take shelter in the store, the teenage girls return with reinforcements. However, Laney runs over their leader and kills the remaining reinforcements. They form a team and leave for a safer hideout. The team is ambushed by Danzinger in a helicopter, and seeks refuge beneath an overpass wherein Barnes realizes they were tracked by the bullet lodged inside him, and manages to extract it. After a confrontation with a large number of Crips, the team helps their leaders injured comrade. In return, the Crips plant the bullet in another area to divert the paramilitary team, which they later eliminate. The team arrives at an underground antipurge hideout run by Dante Bishop. Barnes discovers that Bishops group intends to assassinate Owens, in an effort to end the purge. A large group of paramilitary forces arrives at the hideout looking for Bishop. Barnes and Roan escape back to the streets and meet Joe, Marcos, and Laney, who had left the hideout earlier to return to Joes store. While fleeing the city, the ambulance is hit by Danzingers team. Roan is pulled from the van by the soldiers before Barnes can assist. He leads the group and Bishops team to a fortified cathedral where the NFFA plans to sacrifice her. Before Roan can be killed by the NFFA, the group arrives and assassinates Warrens, causing a shootout that kills the entire congregation except Owens and another NFFA loyalist, Harmon James, who escape. Owens is caught by Bishops group, who still intends to kill him, but Roan manages to persuade them to spare him. The remaining paramilitary forces arrive, killing Bishop and his team. Danzinger and Barnes engage in a melee which ends with the formers death. As Roan and the team free the imprisoned purge victims, James emerges and kills a released prisoner. Joe shoots him, but is fatally wounded. Before dying, Joe asks Marcos to take care of his store. Two months later, Roan wins the election in a landslide, while Barnes is promoted to head of the Secret Service. Marcos and Laney renovate Joes store and continue to run it in his memory. A news report then states that NFFA supporters have staged violent uprisings across the country in response to election results.
The Purge: Election Year
2016