Mary Holmes (MacKellar), once a famous opera star known as Maria di Nardi, now lives in a run-down shanty and suffers from alcoholism. Known for her eccentric behavior, Mary breeds geese, and is thus known in her neighborhood as The Goose Woman. She blames her grown son Geoffrey (Linden) for the deterioration of her voice, and does everything to destroy his life. When Geoffrey, who works as a commercial artist, announces to her that he will marry Joan Hoyt (Arthur), an actress, she becomes torn with jealousy and threatens to reveal to Joan that he is an illegitimate birth. Not allowing his mother the satisfaction of destroying his life, Geoffrey decides to break the news to Joan himself. Joan, who has just ended an affair with a womanizing theatre backer, G. K. Ethridge (Clement), calmly accepts his news and tells him that she wants to proceed their wedding plans. Geoffrey then breaks ties with his mother and heads out to Chicago, on an assignment. Meanwhile, Jacob Riggs (Simpson), a doorman at the Ethridge theatre, shoots and kills his boss on the evening when he is awaiting his final rendezvous with Joan, due to his constant affairs with innocent women. Mary, who lives next to the place where the crime is committed, sees opportunity in getting recognition and fame as Maria di Nardi, after hearing the gunshots. She fabricates a sensational story for the press and media, unaware that her story implicates Geoffrey as a prime suspect. Following a drunken testimony by Mary, Geoffrey is indicted on circumstantial evidence by a grand jury. Despite denying the testimony when she realizes what she is doing to Geoffrey, he is found guilty and sent to jail, awaiting the death penalty. Overcome with grief, Mary uses Joans help to convince Jacob to turn himself in for the crime. After successfully revealing him as the murderer, Geoffrey is freed from jail and can finally mary Joan. Mary burns down her shanty as a symbolic gesture to leave behind her past, in order to join Geoffrey and her daughter-in-law in a joyful future.
The Past of Mary Holmes
1933