In a rich-boy/poor-girl story along the lines of Love Story, Boston college students Michael Hillyard (Collins) and Nancy McAllister (Quinlan) are in love. While visiting a park overlooking the Atlantic Ocean, they hide a costume jewelry necklace under a large rock, promising that they will love each other as long as it remains undisturbed--which they expect to be forever. Michael goes to his mother, Marion (Straight), and announces his plans to marry Nancy. But Marion proves to be an evil home-wrecker, and she thinks Nancy will hurt Michaels career with their family business. Michael, making it clear he will not drop Nancy, storms out of his mothers home. He calls Nancy and makes plans to elope. He asks his best friend Ben Avery (Michael OHare) to be best man. On the way to the ceremony, the three are involved in a horrible car crash. Ben escapes with minor injuries, but Michael is rendered comatose, and Nancy suffers severe facial injuries. While Nancy is still groggy and heavily bandaged, Marion makes an underhanded Mephistophelean deal with her: Marion will send Nancy to California and pay a plastic surgeon to restore her face; Dr. Peter Gregson (Luckinbill) is the surgeon Marion has chosen, since she can also, and eventually does, bribe him heavily to serve as her barrier against Michael. The catch is that Nancy will not be permitted to return to Boston or contact Michael again unless he contacts her, with the implication being that he will decide if he wants the relationship to continue after the trauma of the accident. Believing that Michael will find her once he wakes up, Nancy agrees. However, when Michael comes out of his coma, the evil Marion lies to him, telling him that Nancy had died in the accident. Time passes, and Nancy undergoes a series of successful surgeries to repair her face(although she looks significantly different than before the accident). Once healed, she changes her name to Marie Adamson and becomes a successful photographer. Michael becomes a successful architect with his familys business, designing multimillion-dollar business skyscrapers. His company takes a contract to design a building in San Francisco. Ben, who also now works for the company, happens into a gallery there where Maries photographs are being displayed. He approaches Marie; she recognizes him, but he does not recognize her. He tries to talk to her about her doing photographs to be displayed in new buildings being designed. But once she learns of Michaels involvement, she refuses to have anything to do with the project. Michael sees samples of Maries work and finds himself inexplicably drawn to it. He begins pursuing Marie to engage her to do the project, unaware that she is actually Nancy. Initially, Marie refuses, but eventually Michael starts to wear her down. Marie asks him about the scar above his eyebrow (from the accident). Michael becomes visibly tense, and stoically dismisses it, saying it was from "a small accident" that he has now forgotten. Marie takes his comments to mean that he has forgotten about her (Nancy). She tells Michael she will have nothing to do with him, leaving him in confusion. She goes to Dr. Gregson, the plastic surgeon who repaired her face and (as Marion had secretly evilly planned) with whom she is now involved romantically, and tells him she will be finished with her old life after making one last trip to the east coast. Later that evening, Michael searches for Marie. Eventually he goes to the home of the plastic surgeon. There, he sees a completed painting which Nancy had started during their romance. He finally realizes "Marie Adamson" is actually Nancy McAllister, and that his mother Marion had lied to him. In the climactic scene, Nancy reaches the rock. After a struggle, she dislodges it, only to discover that the necklace is not there. While she tries to understand, Michael appears with the necklace in hand, having gotten there first. They clear the misunderstanding and reunite with a passionate kiss.
The Promise (1979 film)
1979