U.S. Navy SEAL Lieutenant Shane Wolfe is assigned to rescue Howard Plummer, a man working on a top-secret government project, from a group of Serbian rebels. Shane and his team get Plummer off an enemy boat, though while boarding the escape helicopter, the team is under attack by enemy fire. Plummer is killed in the attack, and Shane is shot and spends two months in the hospital. After Shane recovers, he meets up with his commanding officer, Captain Bill Fawcett, who reveals that he is assigned to escort Plummers widow, Julie, to Zürich, where Plummers safety deposit box has been discovered, while Shane is assigned to stay at the Plummer residence, in Bethesda, Maryland, to search for the secret project called GHOST and look after the familys five children: Zoe, Seth, Lulu, Peter, and Baby Tyler. The kids prove to be difficult to handle, even with the help of nanny Helga, who quits when one of Zoe and Seths pranks intended for Shane goes wrong. Shane begins to discover the childrens problems and issues, including Seth and Zoes poor performances at school, being constantly criticized by the schools vice-principal, Duane Murney, and that Lulu is member of a girl scout troop called the Firefly Scouts who are constantly bullied by a rival boy scout troop called the Junior Grizzlies whenever they attempt to sell cookies at the local Costco store. Shane eventually earns the childrens trust and cooperation when he stops a home invasion orchestrated by two masked ninjas, who attempt to steal a CD-R copy of the film Ghost, mistaking it for the secret project. Later, Murney informs Shane that Seth has cut and bleached his hair, has a Nazi armband in his locker, and has skipped every wrestling practice for a month. At home, Seth tells Shane he only joined the wrestling team because of his father. After Seth sneaks out of the house, Shane leaves Zoe in charge and follows him to the town theater, where he learns that Seth has secretly joined an amateur production of The Sound of Music. The director quits when he believes the show will be a failure. Shane volunteers to take his place, and juggles this task with taking care of the house, giving Zoe driving lessons, and teaching Lulu and the Firefly Scouts martial arts to defend themselves against the rival boy scout troop. Seth quits the wrestling team, and when Murney again berates him for doing this, Shane challenges Murney to a wrestling match in front of the entire school, and easily wins despite Murneys show of bluster. The training Shane gives the Firefly Scouts becomes useful when they once again have a conflict with the thuggish scouts. Zoe and Shane share stories of their fathers, both of whom died in similar circumstances. They are interrupted by a phone call from Julie, who has figured out the password, retrieved a large key from Howards box, and is on her way home. The kids immediately plan a "Welcome Home" party. That evening, Shane discovers a secret vault underneath the garage, which requires a key to open. When Bill and Julie arrive home, Bill and Shane go to the garage, where Bill proudly congratulates Shane for his work and Shane says he is rethinking his career. Just then, the two ninjas who previously invaded the Plummers home, arrive armed and pull off their masks, revealing themselves as the Plummers North Korean communist neighbors, the Chuns. Bill suddenly knocks Shane unconscious, revealing himself to be a double agent. Mr. Chun restrains and guards the children while Bill and Mrs. Chun take Julie down to the vault. They open the door, but a dangerous security system prevents them from going further. The children work together to take down Mr. Chun who then makes fun of Lulu’s fighting stance, promting Lulu to drive her foot into his testicles.The children escape and awaken Shane, who sends the kids to get the police while he goes to the vault to help Julie. Mr. Chun follows them in his car; with Zoe at the wheel, the kids force him to crash into a car dealership. Shane gets past the security system using a dance Howard had used to make Peter go to sleep each night, called the "Peter Panda Dance." Julie knocks out Mrs. Chun, and Shanes voice activates the final vault, knocking out Bill with the door. By then, the children have lured a large crowd of police to the house. Mr. Chun arrives and holds all of them at gunpoint. Shane notices school principal and love interest Claire Fletcher right behind him, having followed the chase when she saw it pass by the school. Shane distracts Mr. Chun with the aide of Gary the familys pet duck, and Claire knocks him unconscious. With the mission accomplished and Bill and the Chuns arrested, Shane and the Plummers say their goodbyes, and Shane and Claire kiss. At Seths performance, it is revealed that Shane has retired from the Navy and joined the school staff as the new wrestling coach. Murney also performs in the play, singing "Climb Evry Mountain" off-key while dressed in a nuns habit.
The Pacifier
2005