A smuggling operation in Tampa Bay results in the deaths of Bobby Saint, the son of mafia boss Howard Saint, and Otto Krieg, the arms dealer. Krieg is revealed to be undercover FBI agent and Delta Force veteran Frank Castle on his final mission before retirement. Enraged over the death of his son, Howard Saint acquires confidential information regarding Krieg and learns of his true identity. He orders Castle killed at a family reunion, while his wife Livia requests that his family be killed as well. At the reunion, Saints men, among them Quentin Glass and Bobbys identical twin, John, kill Castles entire family and shoot Castle, leaving him for dead. Castle survives and is nursed back to health by a local fisherman. With the police and FBI unable to pursue the killers, Castle moves into an abandoned apartment occupied by three outcasts, Joan, Bumpo and Dave, and begins his mission to bring the Saints down. With information provided by Mickey Duka, one of Saints more benevolent associates, Castle studies the Saint family and learns their every move, in the process discovering Glass to be a closeted homosexual. He openly attacks Saints business and sabotages his partnership with his Cuban partners. Saint discovers Castle is alive and sends assassins to kill him. The first, Harry Heck, ambushes Castle on a bridge but is killed when Castle slits his throat with a ballistic knife. The second, a Russian behemoth, nearly beats Castle to death in his own apartment. Castle kills him by dousing his face in boiling oil and pushing him down a flight of stairs, breaking his neck. John, Glass and the goons arrive for Castle. The tenants hide Castle and refuse to disclose his location, despite Glass pulling Daves piercings out with pliers. They leave a goon to intercept Castle, but Castle kills him after they leave. With Mickeys help, Castle arranges for Glass to be at certain places posing as an anonymous blackmailer while planting Livias car in the same location, and ultimately placing one of Livias earrings in Glasss bed, leading Saint to believe they are having an affair. Saint confronts and kills Glass in his own home by stabbing him to death, and throws Livia onto a railroad, where she is run over by a train. With Saint despondent, Castle assaults Saints club and kills every last member of his mob, among them John, though Saint, wounded, escapes. Castle pursues him and shoots him fatally. As Saint lies dying, Castle reveals his schemes that led Saint to kill his friend and wife, and ties him to a car leading to a car park laced with explosives, killing Saint in the ensuing explosion. The fires from the explosion forms the skull logo identical to one on Castles costume. Castle returns home and prepares to kill himself with his mission fulfilled, but sees a vision of his wife and changes his mind, instead deciding to continue to fight crime as the Punisher. He leaves some of Saints money as a farewell gift to the tenants for protecting him, and leaves to pursue his next target. The film ends with Castle standing alone on the Sunshine Skyway Bridge, as he vows, "Those who do evil to others...the killers, the rapists, psychos, sadists...you will come to know me well. Frank Castle is dead. Call me...The Punisher".
The Punisher (2004 film)
2004