It is London, 1886. Dorian Gray (Hurd Hatfield) is a handsome and wealthy young man. While generally intelligent, he is naive and easily manipulated. These faults lead to his spiral into sin and ultimate misery. While posing for a painting by his friend Basil Hallward (Lowell Gilmore), Gray meets Hallwards friend Lord Henry Wotton (George Sanders). The cynical but witty Wotton persuades Gray the only worthwhile life is dedicated to pleasure, because "...what the gods give they quickly take away." After Wotton convinces Gray that youth and beauty will bring him everything he desires, Dorian wishes his portrait could age instead of him. He makes the wish openly in the presence of an Egyptian cat statue with supposed mystical powers to grant wishes. Dorian visits a tavern, where he falls in love with a beautiful singer named Sibyl Vane (Angela Lansbury). He starts a romance with her, despite disapproval from Sibyls brother James (Richard Fraser), and they are soon engaged. Though initially contented, Dorian is again persuaded by Lord Henry to pursue a more hedonistic lifestyle. Dorian sends Sibyl a hurtful letter, ending their relationship and "compensating" her with a large payment in cash. The next morning, Gray finds his own face unchanged but the portrait has changed and “the lines of cruelty about the mouth were unmistakable.” He starts to realize his wish to the cat may be real. Lord Henry arrives with news that a heartbroken Sibyl Vane killed herself the previous night, after receiving Dorians dismissive letter. Gray is at first shocked and guilty but soon adopts Lord Henrys indifferent manner. He surprises Hallward by going to the opera that evening. Gray has the portrait locked away in his old school room and disguises its location by firing servants who moved the painting. He becomes even more dedicated to a sinful and heartless life.  Years later, Dorian Gray is forty but looks twenty-two, unchanged from when Hallward painted the portrait. London society is awestruck at his unchanging appearance. Over eighteen years of pointless debauchery, the portrait has remained locked away, with Gray holding the only key. Gray has become paranoid no others see the portrait and he repeatedly fires servants who are too inquisitive. Over the years, the portrait of the young, handsome, Dorian Gray has warped into a hideous, demon-like creature reflecting Dorians sins. Basil Hallward, the painter, eventually sees his painting. Shocked at its disfigurement, scarred “as if some moral leprosy was eating him away”, Hallward encourages Gray to reform his life. However, Gray panics, murders his friend and seals his body in the school room next to the portrait. Dorian blackmails an old friend, Allen Campbell (Douglas Walton), to dispose of Hallwards body. He then starts a romance with Hallwards niece, Gladys (Donna Reed), who was a child when the portrait was painted. Though Gladys had always loved Dorian, and is overjoyed when he proposes marriage, those close to Gray find him suspicious and changed. Allen Campbell, distraught at his role in destroying Hallwards corpse, commits suicide. Gray begins to realize the harm he inflicts on himself and others. He is assaulted by James Vane, Sibyls brother, who has sworn revenge for his sisters death. Dorian, abusing his ever youthful appearance, deceives James by claiming his appearance is too youthful versus the man from eighteen years before. However, James soon guesses the truth, following Dorian Gray to his country estate, intending to achieve his revenge. The unfortunate Vane, hiding in bushes, is shot by accident during a hunting party. Gray despairs at his impact on others, knowing his role in yet another death, and realizes he can spare Gladys from misfortune by leaving her. After sending Gladys a letter breaking their engagement Gray confronts his portrait and sees a subtle improvement. Attributing the change to his determination not to harm Gladys he resolves to change his life. However, he also resolves to destroy the portrait. He stabs the portrait in the heart, seeking to end the spell, but cries out as if he too has also been stabbed. His friends, realizing what has happened, burst into the school room to discover Dorian Gray dead next to the portrait, his body "withered, wrinkled, and loathsome of visage", now reflecting his sins in physical form. The portrait, by contrast, once more shows Dorian Gray as a young, innocent man.
The Picture of Dorian Gray (1945 film)
1945