Jeffrey Wyatt is the widowed father of identical teen triplet daughters, Lisa, Jessie, and Megan. As he picks his daughters up from the airport, he neglects to tell them over the summer he has become engaged to Cassie McGuire. Cassie wants to redesign their California beach house with the help of Susan Evers, a house designer (and is now divorced). Jeffrey initially doesnt like Susans ideas, but comes around to allowing them due to Cassie. Lisa, who is dating David, has invited a boy she met in Paris, Hawk, a "bad boy" to eat at their house. She doesnt know how to break it to him that she finds Hawk more "unpredictable". She asks Jessie to pretend to be Lisa on a date with David, so Lisa can go on a date with Hawk while their father goes on a date with Cassie, Susan, and Nick (Ray Baker) his best friend. As the adults are getting ready for their double date, Susan compliments Jessie going out with David, almost exposing the ruse until Jeffrey innocently jokes he confuses the girls occasionally. At their date, Jessie is bewildered to be at a "Welcome Home Lisa" party with all of their friends. She embarrasses herself during a karaoke dance skit called "The Jackson Three" (a parody of the Jackson Five), singing the Janet Jackson song "What Have You Done for Me Lately". The two have a kiss during the date. Hawk is not wanting to settle down and be Lisas boyfriend. He asks her to run away with him, but she refuses. Later that night, Jeffrey figures out the switch and grounds the girls for three weeks, with David disappointed in Lisa and Jessie. Lisa unleashes her feelings and tells Jeffrey that she doesnt like the jealous, snobbish Cassie, and neither do her sisters. Susan privately speaks with Jessie and Lisa, saying her earlier compliment was not an honest mistake, but that she suspected Lisa and Jessie were switching identities, and even shows them a picture of herself with her twin sister, Sharon Grand. The next morning, Lisa runs away with Hawk on his motorcycle only to break down at a diner. Jessie and Megan, using Davids car, find her. Jeffrey, Susan, and David also do so. Hawk and David begin a fight in the diner, causing the police to be called, and Hawk breaks up with Lisa. David begins to like Jessie better than Lisa. Cassie becomes angry that Susan went with Jeffrey to the diner. The girls begin to befriend and like Susan. They set up a date for her and Jeffrey by not telling Nick and Cassie to come. Jeffrey expresses his admiration for Susan, who refuses because he is engaged. She quits working on the Wyatts house and continues with Nicks condo. Also, Cassie moves the date to two days away. The girls go to Susans apartment and meet Sharon Grand, Susans twin sister. Sharon agrees to help them set up Jeffrey and Susan. On the wedding day, Sharon and the girls lock Jeffrey and Susan in the garage shed, resulting in Jeffrey missing the wedding. Cassie, devastated, hooks up with Nick and drives away. David and Jessie become a couple. Sharon and the girls take down the sheds wall revealing Jeffrey and Susan about to kiss. They have realized their love for each other after playing the piano and singing to the music box she bought and then gave to him. She moves in with him and becomes Lisa, Jessie, and Megans step-mother.
The Parent Trap III
1989