Joan Gordon (Barbara Stanwyck), a New York torch singer who has been performing since age 15, has left her wealthy criminal boyfriend, Eddie Fields (Lyle Talbot), for upstanding citizen Don Leslie (Hardie Albright). However, Dons father has found out about her relationship with Eddie; she and Don break off their engagement, and she decides to leave town rather than return to Eddie. In Montreal, she changes her name and resumes performing; not long thereafter, one of Eddies men recognizes her and informs his boss. Unwilling to return to him, she trades places with her hotels maid (Leila Bennett), who had used Joans picture when corresponding with a North Dakota farmer in search of a mail-order bride. Offering the maid $100 (about 7 weeks wages) for the farmers address, Joan sets out to become the wife of Jim Gilson (George Brent), with only a vague idea of all the hardships of farm life during the height of the Great Depression. Jim and Joans relationship gets off to a rocky start; on their first night, she rejects his advances and forces him to sleep elsewhere. In the morning, she apologizes but he keeps his distance. Over time she falls in love with him, but he remains aloof. Meanwhile, hes informed that hell lose his land if he cant pay his overdue mortgage. He has developed a great strain of wheat and is sure it will bring a profit, but he has no way to keep foreclosure at bay long enough to plant and harvest a crop. A neighboring farmer, Bull McDowell (David Landau), offers to buy Jims land in exchange for Joans company, but Jim is unwilling to make such a bargain and thereby makes an enemy of Bull. A little later, Joan—who has become a very capable farmers wife—visits a neighbor who just gave birth with only her adolescent daughter by her side. Joan cleans the home, prepares food, turns an old dress into diapers, and calms the frightened daughter (Anne Shirley). She braves a snowstorm to return home, where Jim has taken in a man who lost his way in the storm—Eddie. She pretends not to know him, but Eddie quickly tries to take her with him. Jim, angry at Joan because of her complicated past (and because hes jealous, though he cant yet admit that he cares about her), tells her to go with Eddie. She refuses and later asks Eddie privately for a loan to save Jims land. The loan (which Jim thinks is an extension from the bank) enables them to stay on the farm until after the harvest. She continues to stand by him, but he remains distant. Then one night Bull torches part of the harvested-but-not-sold crop, and Joan and Jim fight to save it. Joan is injured, but they succeed—and her determination and dedication finally break through Jims reserve.
The Purchase Price
1932