During the Peninsular War, Napoleons armies overrun Spain. An enormous siege cannon, belonging to the Spanish army, is abandoned when it slows down the armys retreat. French cavalrymen are dispatched to find it. Britain, Spains ally, sends Royal Navy artillery officer, Captain Anthony Trumbull (Grant) to find the huge cannon and see that it is handed over to British forces before it can be retrieved by the French. However, when Trumbull arrives at the Spanish headquarters, he finds that it has been evacuated and is now occupied by a guerrilla band led by the French-hating Miguel (Sinatra). Miguel shows Trumbull the abandoned cannons location down a steep ravine. He says he will only help move the huge gun if it is first used against the fortified walls of Ávila, which Miguel is obsessed with capturing. During their association, the two men grow to dislike one another. One cause of their enmity is Miguels woman Juana (Loren), who has fallen in love with Trumbull. Meanwhile, sadistic General Jouvet (Bikel), the French commander in Ávila, orders the execution of all Spaniards who do not surrender information of the cannons whereabouts. The cannon has, in fact, undergone an arduous journey in the direction of Ávila. The guerrilla band, whose ranks have swelled considerably, almost lose the cannon when General Jouvet deploys artillery near a mountain pass that they must use to get to Ávila. With help from the local populace, the band gets the cannon through, despite heavy losses, although it rolls down a long hillside and is damaged, becoming partially dismounted from its carriage. The cannon is moved and hidden in a cathedral while it is repaired. Afterwards it is disguised as an ornamental processional platform during a Catholic religious celebration to move it past the occupying French. French officers, however, are informed about the cannons cathedral location, but by the time they arrive, it has been repaired and moved, leaving no trace that it was ever there. When the cannon finally arrives at the guerrillas camp on the plains outside Ávila, Trumbull and Miguel prepare to attack the city. However, Ávila is defended by strong walls, eighty cannon and a garrison of French troops. Trumbull explains to the assembled guerilla force that half their number will be killed by various types of French artillery shot and grouped rifle fire during the assault wave. Later, he tries to convince Juana not to participate in the battle, but, the next day, she goes with the men. Trumbell repeatedly fires the huge cannon, its 96-pound solid shot, weighing 9000 pounds upon impact, slowly demolishes Ávilas southern wall. Despite suffering heavy losses, including both Miguel and Juana, the guerrillas charge through the citys breached wall and overwhelm the French forces. General Jouvet is killed, and the last French troops are overrun in the town square. After the battle, Trumbull places Miguels body at the foot of the statue of Ávilas patron saint. Having secured the heavy cannon for its long trip to England, he leaves with troubling memories of his adventures across Spain.
The Pride and the Passion
1957