When the master thief The Tornado steals expensive artifacts from around the world, France assembles a Dream Team of Amateur Detectives to solve the case. Inspector Clouseau is reassigned from his task as a parking officer by Chief Inspector Dreyfus to join the Dream Team in Japan, site of the Tornados recent heist. At the airport, as soon as he steps over the border and leaves France, news breaks that the Pink Panther Diamond has been stolen, prompting Clouseau, who had up to that point been wary of leaving, to say, "I told you". Clouseau travels back to the scene of the crime and joins the other members of the Dream Team: Inspector Pepperidge, from Great Britain; Vincenzo, from Italy; Kenji, an electronics specialist from Japan; and Sonia, a researcher and criminology expert from India. They go to Rome to investigate a black market fence, Alonso Avellaneda, who deals with The Tornado. Assuming he is The Tornado, the Dream Team question him while Clouseau snoops around. Avellaneda vindicates himself by demonstrating that he lacks a bullet-wound to the right shoulder that the Tornado suffered over a decade ago. After they leave, he meets with the real Tornado. That night, Clouseau and his partner, Ponton, spy on Avellaneda, using a wire they planted on him, as he takes a date out for dinner. The mission is compromised when they find Vincenzo and Clouseaus girlfriend, Nicole, together at the restaurant. Having been banned for burning down the restaurant three months earlier, Clouseau disguises himself as a dancer and switches the wire to Nicoles table. In the process, he ends up burning down the restaurant again. At the same time, The Tornado steals the Popes ring, an act which turns public opinion against the Dream Team. When Clouseaus acts of foolishness aggravate the situation, he is voted off the team; only Sonia sympathizes with him. Shortly afterward, Clouseau is called to an office where they see the Tornado has killed himself and left a suicide note that claims he destroyed the Pink Panther – regarding it as being so beautiful that he could not bring anyone other than himself to own it – and left the other treasures to be recovered. Examining a key they found in the Popes Chambers, they match the DNA of the victim with DNA of the Tornado acquired when he was shot, and thus believe themselves to have solved the case. However, Clouseau is unconvinced and believes the Tornado was not the thief. For their victory, a celebration is thrown in the Dream Teams honor. Clouseau, who was not invited, discovers something in a license plate of Sonias car and calls Ponton. He tries to tell Dreyfus the real thief is still at large, but is ignored. Dreyfus relays to the group that Clouseau told him Sonia was the thief, and the group, treating the idea as a joke, work out a plausible explanation for how she could have done it; as the Tornados ex-lover, she would have in-depth knowledge of his methods, and has set up a situation to draw all attention to the thefts of the other artifacts while leaving her free to sell the Pink Panther. As Sonia leaves, Nicole, beginning to realize that what Clouseau and the group said could be true, asks her to take everything out of her purse. Sonia pulls out a gun, and after initially threatening to shoot Nicole, she shoots Clouseau, but the bullet hits the medal of honor. A chase ensues, with Clouseau and the Dream Team attempting to catch Sonia, while all the members of the team but Clouseau make fools of themselves through various accidents caused by Clouseaus clumsiness. Finally cornered, Sonia threatens to destroy the Pink Panther, and Clouseau goads her to do so. Sonia attempts to escape, but is knocked out by Ponton and arrested by the police. Clouseau reveals that Sonia had destroyed a fake gem; Clouseau had, in fact, kept the real Pink Panther in his possession, having switched them at the museum before he was about to leave France. The Tornado, an expert on gems, would have recognized the Pink Panther to be a fake; therefore, his suicide note was forged, and he was murdered. He reveals that he had given Sonias car a ticket two days before the Pink Panther was stolen, contradicting her alibi of having been delayed to the crime scene because of her flight, which revealed to him that Sonia was the culprit. Dreyfus tries to claim credit for having appointed Clouseau to his parking job, but Clouseau, remembering Dreyfus told him to deny this to anyone who asked, rebukes the claim. Clouseau later marries Nicole with Inspector Dreyfus performing the ceremony. The film ends with the wedding in complete chaos caused by a raid from the Elite black berets, with Clouseau and Nicole escaping as the animated Pink Panther watches; he then goes to close the doors and winks at the camera.
The Pink Panther 2
2009