The ESU Timberwolves are entering a season with high expectations after two disappointing seasons, with coach Sam Winters (Caan) pressured to win this coming season or be possibly fired. Darnell Jefferson (Epps), a highly rated running back, is recruited by ESU, and falls for Autumn (Berry) as she shows him around the campus. Jefferson is introduced to junior NFL prospect Alvin Mack (Duane Davis), backup QB Bobby Collins (Jon Pennell), who is dating Winters daughter Louanne (Adams), and senior Steve Lattimer (Andrew Bryniarski), a gunner on the return team who has gained 35 pounds with the goal of starting in his senior year. Jefferson reunites with Autumn, but discovers she is dating the starting tailback Ray Griffen (J. Leon Pridgen II), who she had temporarily broken up because he had cheated on her. Jefferson takes his entrance exams, going to Mack and Lattimer for advice, who reassure Jefferson that the school will keep him eligible if hes talented enough to play. Jefferson fails to pass, and chooses Autumn as a tutor, who reluctantly agrees. Jefferson and Autumn grow closer, but Autumn is too ashamed to admit that she is dating him to her father, a former ESU football player, and eventually resumes her relationship with Griffen. Sports Illustrated runs a cover story on junior quarterback Joe Kane (Sheffer), declaring him a Heisman Trophy candidate, but he starts drinking to deal with the pressure upon him. He meets tennis player Camille (Swanson), and develops a relationship. Meanwhile, concern grows that Lattimer is taking steroids. When Lattimer learns he has been named a starting defensive end, he shatters car windows with his head in the parking lot, witnessed by several people, including both the offensive and defensive coordinators, who agree not to tell Winters about the behavior, but warn Lattimer that the NCAA will be drug-testing before the start of the season. Lattimer substitutes clean urine for his own during the tests. The team has a good start in the first half of the season. Louanne is expelled for taking a test for Collins, who is kicked off the team and also expelled. Lattimer assaults a girl unwilling to "hook up" with him, but her father is a large football booster and she drops the charges. Winters finally accepts that Lattimer is doping, but warned that suspension without failing a drug test would open the school for a lawsuit for jeopardizing his draft status. Lattimer is suspended for three games when he admits the drug use to Winters, with the team running a cover story of a pulled hamstring to keep it under wraps. Lattimer ceases taking steroids, with Winters telling him that he will not be allowed in the stall alone for the drug tests. ESU lose to Michigan, questioning Kanes ability to win the trophy. Kane gets drunk in a bar and assaults another patron, hospitalizing the other man. He flees in another players truck and is charged with a DWI. Winters negotiates a plea arrangement where all charges will be dropped if Kane successfully completes a 28-day program, but he will miss four games and effectively ends his Heisman candidacy. The team needs to win three games in the next five weeks to win the conference championship, so school officials pressure Winters into letting Collins back on the team in Kanes place and he agrees, vouching for him to the disciplinary committee. Collins is readmitted and the team goes 2-1 in the first three games with him under center. Lattimer passes his drug test, returning for the second-to-last game of the season against Iowa. Mack suffers a career-ending knee injury late in the fourth quarter and Lattimer is run over at the goal line by Iowas running back for the games winning score. Lattimer resumes taking steroids and has an associate remove tainted urine from his bladder and replace it with clean urine in a painful and dangerous procedure so that he can pass his next drug test. Kane completes his program and attempts to reconcile with Camille and his estranged father, who has never seen him play, giving the latter a plane ticket to Florida for the teams final season game against Georgia Tech, that will win the Eastern Athletic Conference (EAC) and secure a major bowl game. Jefferson is named the teams starting tailback and Griffen is moved to fullback, but Collins is selected as the starting quarterback despite Kanes return. When Georgia Tech leads 10-0 at half time, Winters starts Kane at quarterback in the second half. As he takes the field, Kane sees his father is not there, accepting that he will never see him play. Kane struggles to regain his rhythm but the game remains close, thanks in part to a goal-line tackle made by Lattimer to save the game. Afterwards, Winters notices Lattimers eyes and realizes he continued taking steroids without failing a drug test. Kane rallies the team to victory, saving Winters job, with both coach and quarterback realizing Kane will likely make another, more-promising run at the Heisman in his senior season. Lattimer sits on the bench and cries instead of celebrating with the team, knowing he will not be able to play in the NFL without drugs. After the game, Autumn introduces Jefferson to her father as her boyfriend. Kane reunites with Camille, and the coaches leave on a recruiting trip for next seasons freshmen, particularly a replacement for Lattimer.
The Program (1993 film)
1993