Webb Garwood (Van Heflin), a disgruntled cop, is called to investigate a voyeur by Susan Gilvray (Evelyn Keyes). Her husband works nights as an overnight radio personality. Webb falls in love with the young and attractive married woman. Obsessed, he woos her despite her initial reluctance and the two begin an adulterous affair. Webb finds out about an insurance policy on the husbands life. He dreams up a scheme in which a phantom "prowler" would be a good scapegoat if Susans husband should happen to die mysteriously. After becoming a prowler himself, Webb "investigates" and then commits the murder, making it look like a tragic accident in which he and the husband shot at each other, each suspecting the other of being the prowler. Webbs ruse fools a coroners jury, thanks in part to both Susan and Webb testifying that they didnt know each other prior to her husbands death. Susan initially suspects Webb of foul play, but becomes convinced of his innocence and subsequently marries him. Shortly after the wedding, Susan informs Webb that she has been pregnant for four months. This is problematic because the date of the childs conception would prove the two had lied in their testimony to cover up their previous relationship and would thus suggest that Webbs killing of Susans husband had not been an accident. The two run away to a ghost town named Calico to have the baby without anyone back home knowing. Susan goes into premature labor and Webb finds a doctor, Dr. William James (Wheaton Chambers). Susan realizes that Webb intends to kill Dr. James to preserve their secret, so she warns the doctor who then escapes with the newborn. Susan tells Webb that she knows what he had planned to do and that she now realizes that he intentionally murdered her husband. Realizing the doctor will send the police after him, Webb drives away, leaving his wife in Calico alone. On the way out of town, he finds the road blocked by his former partner on the police force who was coming to pay a visit. While attempting to get around his friends car, Webb sees several police cars coming so he heads for the hills on foot. He refuses to stop and a sheriffs deputy shoots him dead.
The Prowler (1951 film)
1951