Cynthia Nelson (Mariette Hartley), a teacher at the local orphanage, talks with a pastor while watching the sun set before getting ready for a fundraising costume party. Cynthia mentions the "Santa Ana winds" which the pastor states are an evil omen. One of the orphans, Tommy, wanders into the nearby cemetery where he faintly hears a voice ordering "Rise, rise; it is time." Tommy initially dismisses it, but as he stops to rest, vampire women rise from their graves. Seeing this, Tommy tries to escape the cemetery only to run into the clutches of Count Yorga, who is waiting for them. Sometime later, Yorga goes to the orphanage during their costume party and fund raiser. Biting one of the pretty guests, Mitzi, outside the event room before going inside and introducing himself to those present, among which is Cynthia whom he becomes infatuated with. When a weakened Mitzi stumbles into the room, he leaves as the others are attending to her. That night, he returns to his manor and a makeshift throne room overlooking several coffins, greeted by Brudda, Yorgas hulking facially disfigured valet, and the female vampires from earlier ready to do his bidding. Yorga sends the undead women to Cynthias house, using mind-control to get Cynthias family (along with Tommy, who was sleeping over) into the living room before his brides break in and attack them. The family is quickly overrun with Cynthias mother, father and sister, Ellen, fed upon by the undead horde. Tommy is untouched, showcasing he is under Yorgas power while Cynthia herself is subdued, but unharmed and carried by the brides to Yorgas residence where she awakens. Due to Yorgas hypnotic suggestions, she has no memory of the attack. Yorga tells Cynthia that there was a car accident and she was left in his care by her family. He tries to charm the young woman into willingly becoming his bride, though he is warned by his live-in witch that Cynthia will bring his end if he does not kill her or turn her into a vampire soon. The next morning, Jennifer, the Nelsons mute maid, finds the massacre scene and calls the police. However as she does, Brudda drags the corpses of Cynthias mother and father to a quicksand pit on Yorgas property, disposing of the physical evidence. By the time the police arrive though, all of the evidence has been mysteriously cleared away, and Tommy claims that nothing has happened. Despite the confusion, David Baldwin, Cynthias fiancé, is suspicious about the Nelsons disappearance. Meanwhile, memories of the attack on her family slowly start to resurface in Cynthias mind as she stays within Yorgas manor. Jennifer, suspicious about Tommys involvement with the Nelsons disappearance and his visits to Yorgas mansion, loses her patience and slaps Tommy who stares at her in a vengeful manner. Meanwhile, Yorga goes to claim Mitzi, killing her boyfriend near their boat house before feeding on her once more, this time finishing draining her completely and adding her to his vampiric harem. Hours later, Ellens fiancé Jason is lured to Yorgas mansion by Tommy, on the claim that he found Ellen. Once at the mansion, Tommy disappears, while Jason is reunited with Ellen who has clearly been made into a vampire by Yorga. As she mocks him for "not loving her anymore" and soon starts laughing cruelly at him when he sense something wrong, her fellow brides attack Jason from behind. Jason breaks free, only to run into Count Yorga, who chases Jason down a hall and strangles him. Bruddah tosses Jasons body into the throne/coffin room for the brides, including Ellen and newly vampiric Mitzi, to feed upon. That evening, Reverend Thomas phones Jennifer, but it is revealed she lies dead on her bed with a large knife sticking out of her chest. From her window, Tommy can be seen walking away from the house. After Thomas learns (off camera) of Jennifers death, David is sure he is correct about the Counts true nature and manages to convince Reverend Thomas and investigating police detectives Lt. Madden and Sgt. OConnor (Craig T. Nelson) to join him in a rescue-mission at Yorgas mansion. Reverend Thomas is sent to distract Yorga while Baldwin, Madden and OConnor sneak in to search the manor, armed with sticks they can cross and hold up to ward off the vampires. Meanwhile the pastor falls for Yorgas charms and reveals the others suspicions that he is a vampire, alerting Yorga of danger. Thomas is tricked into walking into the quicksand pit and promptly sinks to his death. Yorga returns to the manor, awakens his brides and unleashes them through the household as he psychically calls Cynthia to him. Baldwin splits from the detectives to expand the room-by-room search, and upon opening one door discovers Jasons corpse, covered in bloody bite marks with an IV draining remaining blood from his neck into a glass-bottle on the floor beneath him. Later, Baldwin finally finds the half-mind-controlled Cynthia and attempts to escape; however, he is nearly beaten by Brudda. Falling into a suit of armor, Baldwin grabs a metal mace and knocks Brudda out with a violent blow to the face. Meanwhile Madden and OConnor (disbelieving the idea of vampires up to this point) are now believers on the run from Yorgas vampire brides. The detectives attempt to shoot them point blank, but their bullets prove ineffective against the undead. In the midst of the their escape, they encounter Brudda and managed to shoot him to death. Eventually OConnor is separated in the brides throne/coffin room by a shutter and immediately bitten by the witch (also a vampire) as Madden helplessly listens to OConnors death-screams. Madden tries to find a way to him, but lured in by a voice from the shadows (thinking it is Baldwin) and killed by Tommy who stabs him in the same way he murdered Jennifer. Baldwin and Cynthia are the only ones left alive, with Yorga supernaturally mocking Baldwin throughout the estate. However, Yorga seals their exit routes while his brides slowly close in on the two. They duck into a darken hallway, but when Baldwin turns on the lights, he finds himself confronted by all the brides (including Ellen and Mitzi) with Yorga behind them who calls Cynthia over to his side. Yorga takes her away preparing to transform her into a new bride, while leaving his army of brides to finish off Baldwin. Baldwin somehow escapes the brides and gives pursuit (along the way, grabbing an iron battle-axe from a wall), chasing the two up to the balcony. The two men fight, with Yorga gaining the advantage. Just as he is about to kill Baldwin via choking, Cynthias memories of the brides killing her family resurfaces, causing her to realize Yorga was responsible for their deaths. She strikes Yorga in the chest with Baldwins battle-axe. With Yorga stunned by the action, Baldwin uses the moment to throw Yorga off the balcony, killing him. Cynthia hugs Baldwin, believing the ordeal over. However, she notices something wrong and pulls away. To her horror, she sees that Baldwin has suddenly transformed into a vampire, having apparently not escaped from the brides unscathed. Cynthia tries to run from him, but Baldwin pulls her back, biting her. The last shot of the movie is Tommy playing with his ball in front of the orphanage accompanied by a haunting rendition of the song the children sang at the beginning of the film. Though Yorga is dead, his evil lives on as those who know of him are either dead or turned into vampires and will carry out his curse. The film ends with the ominous implication that Cynthia has joined them and the surviving vampires are resting within the manor, where they will proceed to spread the vampirisim to the unwitting orphanage and soon to the rest of the town.
The Return of Count Yorga
1971