Millionaire playboy Fred White is attempting to make chorus girl Evelyn his latest conquest. Evelyn, on to Freds scheming, has some scheming of her own, attempting to maneuver Fred into marriage. In a last ditch effort to get Evelyn into bed, Fred purchases a diamond bracelet, to which he has attached a key to the apartment he has leased as their potential love nest. When he shows the bracelet to his friend, Howard, the friend warns Fred that Evelyn is simply a gold-digger, only interested in getting him to marry her so that she can gain access to his money. The two make a bet. If Fred wins by getting her to be his kept woman, Howard has to pay for the bracelet and the cost of the apartment, and if Howard wins, by rejecting Freds non-marital advances, Fred will owe Howard the same amount of money. When his plan to establish the love nest does not work out, Fred is dismayed, but Evelyn opens the door by inviting him to dinner the following night. She uses the dinner as a pretense to set to entrap Fred into marriage. Part of her plan involves her friend, Lou, to pose as her father. Not understanding that he is being entrapped, Fred realizes that he is really in love with Evelyn, and actually makes a real proposal of marriage. The night of his bachelor party, Howard is still distrustful of Evelyns motives and gets Lou drunk, after which he reveals Evelyns plot to entrap Fred. Fred is devastated, and agrees to a plan to embarrass Evelyn at the altar on the day of their wedding. Meanwhile, Evelyn realizes that she is no longer after Fred simply for his money, that she has actually fallen in love with him. She cannot bring herself to confess her underhanded scheming to Fred, and simply does not show up on the day of their wedding. Fred rushes from the church to her house, where he finds a letter she had written to him in which she confesses everything. He convinces her to come back to the church and go through with the wedding. They return to the church, where everything is explained to the guests, and the two of them are married.
The Runaround (1931 film)
1931