In 1898, Daniel Plainview, a prospector in New Mexico, mines a potentially precious ore vein from a pit mine hole. In the process of dynamiting the lode, he falls and breaks his leg. He saves a silver sample, climbs out of the mine, drags himself to an assay office, and receives a silver and gold certificate claim. In 1902, he discovers oil near Los Angeles and establishes a drilling company. Following the death of a worker in an accident, Daniel adopts the mans orphaned son. The boy, H. W., becomes his nominal business partner, allowing Daniel to present himself to potential investors as a family man. In 1911, Daniel is approached by Paul Sunday, who tells him of an oil deposit under his familys property in Little Boston, California. Daniel attempts to buy the farm at a bargain price. However, Eli, Pauls twin brother and pastor of a local church, demands $10,000 and states that it is for the church. An agreement is made and Daniel acquires all the available land, except for one holdout: William Bandy. Oil production begins, but an accident kills a worker and a gas blowout deafens H. W. Eli blames the disasters on the well not being properly blessed. When Eli demands the $5,000 that Daniel still owes his family, Daniel beats and humiliates him. At the dinner table, Eli berates his father for trusting Daniel. A man arrives at Daniels doorstep claiming to be his half-brother, Henry. Daniel hires Henry and the two grow close. H. W. sets fire to their house, intending to kill Henry. Angry, Daniel sends him away to a school for the deaf in San Francisco. A representative from Standard Oil offers to buy out Daniels local interests, but Daniel strikes a deal with Union Oil and constructs a pipeline to the California coast, though the Bandy ranch remains an impediment. Reminiscing about his childhood, Daniel becomes suspicious of Henry and one night holds him at gunpoint. "Henry" confesses that he was a friend of the real Henry, who died from tuberculosis. In a fit of rage, Daniel murders the impostor and buries his body. The next morning, Daniel is awakened by Bandy, who knows of the previous nights events and wants Daniel to repent. At the church, as part of Daniels baptism, Eli humiliates him and coerces him into acknowledging that he is a bad father. Some time later, as the pipeline is well under way, H. W. returns and reunites with Daniel, while Eli leaves town for missionary work. In 1927, H. W. marries Mary, sister of Eli and Paul. Daniel, now extremely wealthy but suffering from alcoholism, lives as a recluse in a large mansion. Through a sign language interpreter, H. W. asks Daniel to dissolve their partnership so that he can establish his own oil company in Mexico. Daniel reacts brutally, mocks H. W.s deafness, and reveals his true origins as an orphan. H. W. tells Daniel he is glad they are not related and leaves. Eli visits Daniel, who is drunk in his private bowling alley. Eli, now a radio preacher, offers to sell Daniel the land of William Bandy, who has recently died. Daniel agrees on the condition that Eli denounce his faith and his own credibility. Eli reluctantly does so. Daniel reveals that the property is now worthless because he has already drained its oil through surrounding wells. Shaken, Eli confesses to being in dire financial straits and to having strayed morally. Daniel taunts him, chases him around the bowling alley, and then beats him to death with a bowling pin.
There Will Be Blood
2007