Barbara Lang paints a barrier around her living room to protect her telekinetic daughter, Rachel, from the devil. Barbara is soon institutionalized for schizophrenia. Years later Rachel, living with foster parents, talks with her best friend Lisa, who has lost her virginity to Eric, a football player. The football players have a game where they sleep with girls and receive points, revealing Eric never cared for Lisa. After Eric rejects her, Lisa commits suicide. Her death ignites Rachels dormant and latent telekinetic powers. Rachel discovers a photo of Lisa and Eric. She tells school guidance counselor Sue Snell and Sheriff Kelton that Lisa and Eric slept together. Kelton looks into charging Eric with statutory rape. Walter, Rachels Basset Hound dog, is struck by a car, but Rachel flags down Jesse as he drives past. After taking Walter to an animal hospital, they get coffee. Learning that Rachel gave Kelton the photograph, Eric, Mark, and several other football players attempt to intimidate her into not talking. They become victims of her powers and flee when her foster parents arrive. Sue Snell meets with Rachel. When Sue learns that Rachel is telekinetic, she brings Rachel to the site of the original high school. She tells Rachel about Carrie White, and the malicious prank that was pulled on her on prom night that caused her to snap and cause the school to burn down, along with over 70 people killed. Rachel does not believe her when Sue tells her that she and Carrie White are half-sisters from the same father, Ralph White. Jesse pursues Rachel, angering popular cheerleader Tracy. Jesse convinces Rachel he was unaware of their attack, and Rachel agrees to date him. The Senior D.A. covers up the statutory rape because of the political influence of the families of the players. Encouraged, Mark plots to humiliate Rachel for what she did to Eric. He apologizes to Jesse and offers his parents cabin so Jesse can spend the night with Rachel. The two share a romantic evening, and Rachel loses her virginity, both unaware that a hidden video camera is filming them. After a football game, one of the players, Brad, and his girlfriend Monica invite Rachel to a party at Marks. She leaves with Monica, while Jesse is sidetracked by Tracy, who attempts to seduce him. Rachel is with Jesses friends when the football players reveal their sex game and claim that Rachel was added to Jesses list, making Rachel believe Jesse never cared for her. They also play the videotape and abuse her. As it triggers Rachels telekinesis, she closes the doors and kills most of the party-goers, including Deborah and Chuck. Sue takes Barbara from the mental hospital and goes to Marks house. As Sue peers in the door, Rachel kills both Sue (unknowingly) and Brad. Rachel later kills Monica and Eric when they try to stop her with spear guns. While distracted by her mothers voice, Mark, in an attempt to stop her, shoots Rachel with a flare gun as she falls into a pool, causing a sensor to extend the cover. When Mark makes the mistake of checking the pool, the injured Rachel pulls Mark into the pool, and, with the cover fully extended, uses his spear gun to free herself while he drowns. When Barbara sees Rachels current state, she believes Rachel is possessed and flees. Rachel prays for help to die. Jesse and Tracy find the house in flames and their friends dead. When Rachel sees Tracy, she kills her without hesitation. The videotape of Rachel and Jesse is still playing; when he sees it Jesse tells her he did not know they were taped. Rachel calls him a liar as a notebook hits him, opening to the score page. Jesse says he loves her, but she does not believe him until she hears him say it on the videotape, realizing he told the truth. When the ceiling collapses over Jesses head, Rachel pushes him out of the way and is pinned. She tells him she loves him, and they kiss. Rachel pushes him out of the house before allowing herself to be consumed by the flames. A year later, Jesse is at Kings University, sharing his room with Rachels beloved dog, Walter. Jesse dreams Rachel approaches him in his room. When he walks towards her, she shatters into pieces.
The Rage: Carrie 2
1999