The plot is very close to the original play and 1928 movie. Racketeer and mobster Nick Scanlon (Ryan) has managed to buy several of the local government and law-enforcement officials of a large midwestern American city. However, he cant seem to touch the incorruptible police captain Tom McQuigg (Mitchum), who refuses all attempts at bribery. The city’s prosecuting attorney, Welch (Collins), and a state police detective, Turk (Conrad), are crooked and make McQuiggs job as an honest officer nearly impossible. McQuigg persuades a sexy nightclub singer (Scott) to testify against Scanlon, which makes her marked for death from the mob. McQuigg not only wants to nail Scanlon, but also stop all the mob corruption in the city – without getting himself or his witness killed. A bomb explodes near McQuiggs home, frightening his wife, Mary. Honest cop Bob Johnson is helpful to McQuigg, as is reporter Dave Ames, who has a romantic interest in Irene. At the police precinct one night, Scanlon walks in alone demanding to see Irene and kills Johnson in cold blood. After a car chase, Scanlon is taken into custody. McQuigg ignores the gangsters lawyer, ripping up his writ of habeas corpus. McQuigg has the gun that killed Johnson, which has Scanlons fingerprints on it. Welch and Turk make a phone call to Scanlons unseen mob boss for instructions. They end up telling Scanlon he must remain locked up until after the next election, angering the gangster, who threatens to tell all. Welch and Turk then gesture toward a window and silently coax Scanlon to make a run for it. Scanlon gets his hands on the murder weapon, but its been emptied of bullets by McQuigg, who had foreseen everything Scanlon would try, planting a cop outside the window as well. Scanlon is shot dead by Turk, who then is taken into a room with Welch by investigators bringing subpoenas. Irene leaves with Dave, indicating her interest in him. McQuigg goes home with his wife after a long day, aware that tomorrow will probably be just as busy.
The Racket (1951 film)
1951