In the late 1980s, Vesuvius, a fictional heavy metal/glam metal band from Cleveland, Ohio, is on the verge of making it big. The band is offered a recording contract with one condition - they must replace drummer Robert "Fish" Fishman with the nephew of the president of the record company. After initially refusing, the band caves when their manager tells them they would get to tour as the opening act for Whitesnake. Twenty years later, Vesuvius remains an immensely successful band, while Fish is living a normal life. Matt Gadman, Fishs high school-aged nephew, plays keyboards in an alternative rock band called A.D.D., along with his friends Curtis Powell and Amelia Stone. The band is scheduled to play their schools prom but the gig is in jeopardy when their drummer is suspended from school. Matt convinces the others to allow Fish to fill in, but he ruins the gig when he launches into an impromptu drum solo. However, Fish is so excited by Curtis songs and the chance to play again, he convinces them to let him join the band if he can deliver another gig. After repeated failed attempts, he finally succeeds in securing a gig at a club in Fort Wayne, Indiana. Because the other members are all minors, they have to sneak out to the gig but are arrested in the process. When Fish is forced out of his sister Lisas house and rents the basement of his favorite Chinese restaurant, the band invents a new way to practice via four-way iChat. To the dismay of his bandmates, Fish performs in the nude to try and stay cool. The video of the practice is leaked and quickly goes viral under the title of the "naked drummer band". The band is signed to a recording contract by the same label as Vesuvius, and are sent on a midwest tour. However, Fish commits stereotypical acts, despite the physical costs on his body, and he vandalizes a hotel room, which once again results in the bands arrest. After bailing them out, Kim, Curtis mother, promises the other parents she will stay for the remainder of the tour, so their children will not be influenced by Fishs antics. The label asks A.D.D. to open a show for Vesuvius honoring their induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Fish refuses to play the gig and quits. Curtis eventually convinces him to put aside his resentment towards his former bandmates and play the show. Fish meets Vesuvius before the show to discover they have become vain and arrogant. Fish decides to move on from his past and wishes Vesuvius a great show. Fish and the band perform to a standing ovation. After their gig, Amelia and Curtis, and Fish and Kim both begin a relationship. Vesuvius takes the stage, and during their set the lead singers microphone falls off the stand while the voice track of their song continues, then one line of the song starts incessantly sounding like a broken record, revealing that they have been lip-syncing. The audience condemns Vesuvius and chants an encore for A.D.D., performing for the crowd once again.
The Rocker (film)
2008