Nick Pulovski (Eastwood) and his partner, Powell (Williams), are assigned to the case of taking down the criminal empire of a German felon, Strom (Julia), who engages in grand theft auto for his chop shop operations. During an encounter with Strom and his men, who are loading a semi-trailer truck with stolen cars, Powell is shot dead by Strom. Nick, despite efforts to catch the criminals on the highway, ends up losing them and is subsequently taken off the case by his superior Lt. Raymond Garcia (Serna), who assigns him a new partner, David Ackerman (Sheen), a rookie cop only recently promoted to detective. Against orders, Nick continues investigating Stroms gang and dealing with Davids lack of experience, particularly a bar brawl during which Davids badge is stolen by one of Stroms men, Loco. While attending the birthday party of Davids mother, Nick meets Davids wealthy father, Eugene (Skerritt), who attempts to bribe Nick to protect David no matter what. Nick threatens one of Stroms men, Morales, into helping him. He manages to plant a two-way radio inside Stroms house, but he is found out and killed by Strom and his lover, Liesl (Braga). While listening in on Stroms plans to flee the country, Nick and David ambush Strom at a casino, but David botches the operation when he cannot bring himself to shoot Liesl. He is shot in the back, but survives with his bulletproof vest, while Strom takes Nick hostage and demands a $2 million ransom. Haunted by causing his little brothers death during their childhood and by his failure to help Nick, David overcomes his fears and goes on a brutal rampage, interrogating as many as Stroms associates as possible. He finds another of Stroms men, Little Felix, garroted to death in his own shop, and barely escapes the same fate by Loco, who escapes before David can subdue him. In desperation, David approaches his father to supply the ransom money in case he fails. David calls his girlfriend, Sarah, who tells him that Garcia is waiting to speak to him at their home, but detectives sent by Garcia intercept David for police brutality. Realizing that Loco is posing as Garcia, David escapes and races home to intercept Loco before he kills Sarah. They clash violently until Sarah shoots Loco dead. Though David needed Loco alive, Locos car directs him to a garage where he and Nick had previously seen it. At Stroms garage, Nick manages to free himself and attempts to escape but is cornered by Strom and Liesl. David arrives and chases them off, and they barely escape the garage before Strom detonates the explosives inside it. Catching Stroms contact sent to collect the money, Nick and David reach Strom at the airport and a long chase ensues. Stroms pilot is shot in the head, causing him to crash into another plane, while Nick and David pursue Strom and Liesl into the airport. David shoots and kills Liesl, while Nick runs out of bullets and is shot by Strom. David shoots Strom in the shoulder while Strom shoots David in the leg. Heedless to Stroms request for medical aid, Nick kills Strom with a gunshot to the head. Sometime later, Nick, David and Garcia have been promoted. As the new lieutenant, Nick assigns David another rookie partner, Heather Torres.
The Rookie (1990 film)
1990