Johnny is a successful banker who lives in a San Francisco townhouse with his fiancée Lisa, who has become dissatisfied with their relationship. She seduces his best friend, Mark, and the two begin an affair. As their wedding approaches and Johnnys influence at his bank slips, Lisa alternates between glorifying and vilifying Johnny to her family and friends, making false accusations of domestic abuse and defending Johnny against criticisms. Meanwhile, Johnny, having overheard Lisa confess her infidelity to her mother Claudette, attaches a tape recorder to their phone in an attempt to identify her lover. Denny, a neighboring student whom Johnny financially and emotionally supports, has a run-in with an armed drug dealer, Chris-R, whom Johnny and Mark overpower and take into custody. Denny also lusts after Lisa, and confesses this to Johnny, who understands and encourages him to instead pursue one of his classmates. Johnny spirals into a mental haze and calls upon Peter, his and Marks psychologist friend, for help. Mark also confides in Peter on the roof, where Mark feels guilty about the affair. Peter questions Mark if the affair is with Lisa, causing Mark – who is using marijuana to cope with his melancholy – to briefly try to murder him, but they reconcile a few seconds later. At a surprise birthday party for Johnny, one of his friends catches Lisa kissing Mark while the other guests are outside and confronts them about the affair. Johnny announces that he and Lisa are expecting a child, although Lisa later reveals she lied about it. At the end of the evening, Lisa flaunts her affair in front of Johnny, who attacks Mark. After the party, Johnny locks himself in the bathroom in despair. When he leaves, he retrieves the cassette recorder that he attached to the phone and listens to an intimate call between Lisa and Mark. Outraged, Johnny berates Lisa for betraying him, prompting her to end their relationship and live with Mark. Johnny has an emotional breakdown, destroying his apartment and committing suicide via gunshot. Hearing the commotion, Denny, Mark, and Lisa rush up the stairs to find his body. Mark blames Lisa for Johnnys death, admonishes her for her deceitful behavior, and tells her to get out of his life. Denny tells Lisa and Mark to leave him with Johnny, and they step back to give him a moment, but ultimately stay and comfort each other as the police arrive.
The Room (film)
2003