In 1941, prostitute Mamie Stover is pressured to leave San Francisco by the police. On a freighter bound for Honolulu, she meets Jim Blair, a successful writer and the only other passenger. Initially hostile, Mamie softens a bit when he starts using her life story for material for his writing. A shipboard romance develops; Jim offers to help Mamie make something of herself, but within limits. When they dock in Honolulu, Mamie sees why when Jim is welcomed ashore by his sweetheart Annalee. As they part, Jim lends Mamie $100 ($1,700 today) to help her get settled. She visits an old friend, Jackie Davis, who introduces her to Bertha Parchman, the mean-spirited owner of a dance hall and bar. Even more cold-hearted is Berthas vicious manager Harry Adkins, who beats any rule-breaking hostesses working at the club. Mamie gets hired and learns Berthas four rules: she must live on the premises (so Bertha can keep an eye on her employee), have no boyfriend, do not visit Waikiki Beach or the fancy hotels, and have no bank account in order to avoid attracting the attention of the tax people. The hostesses can keep 30% of the revenue they generate selling tickets for dancing, private visits and overpriced bottles of watered-down liquor. Mamie soon becomes the main attraction of the club, acquiring the nickname "Flaming Mamie" (after dying her hair red). She quickly builds a $2,200 ($36,600 today) bankroll—enough money to pay back her debt to Jim, so she invites him to the club. She is disappointed by Jims disapproval and rejects his suggestion to return to the mainland. She does convince him to rekindle their friendship which puts a strain on his relationship with Annalee, who is jealous of the amount of attention that Jim is giving Mamie. In the meantime, she persuades Jim to manage her money and write a check to her father on her behalf. Seeing a response from the father addressed to "Mrs. Jim Blair" upsets Jim, but he reluctantly agrees to go along. He defends Mamie when Harry beats her up for going out with him. The bombing of Pearl Harbor causes Jimmy to abandon Annalee and frantically search for Mamie. He enlists and asks Mamie to marry him once the war ends. The war builds Mamies personal fortune. She spends many thousands of dollars purchasing multiple commercial properties cheaply from owners wanting to return to the mainland, soon renting them to the U.S. military. While on leave, Jim convinces Mamie to leave the dance hall. Returning to the club to announce her resignation, Mamie finds out that Harry has been fired for encounters with the military police. Bertha, fearing the loss of the clubs biggest attraction, promises to let Mamie jump to a 50% commission at the now booming club, as well as a respectable mailing address to deceive Jim when writing him at his overseas postings. By the time of the 1942 Battle of Midway, Mamie is earning $4,000 ($59,900 today) monthly on her property rentals, and Bertha has boosted her to a 70% commission. Misleading Jim does not work, though, as a promotional poster of Mamie has become a popular pin-up with the troops. He is wounded and returns to Hawaii on convalescent leave, where he confronts Mamie. After a subdued argument, Jim concludes that their lives are too different and leaves her for good. A heartbroken Mamie leaves Hawaii. She disembarks in San Francisco, met by a police officer who reminds her she is still banned from the city. She tells him that she made a fortune and gave it away. He disbelieves her, but offers a ride to the airport to catch a flight to her hometown in Mississippi.
The Revolt of Mamie Stover (film)
1956