In the Australian Outback, a young boy named Cody rescues and befriends a rare golden eagle called Marahuté, who shows him her nest and eggs. Later on, the boy falls in an animal trap set by Percival C. McLeach, a local poacher wanted by the Australian Rangers. When McLeach finds one of the eagles feathers on the boys backpack, he is instantly overcome with excitement, for he knows that catching an eagle that size would make him rich because he had caught one before, which was Marahutés mate. McLeach throws Codys backpack to a pack of crocodiles in order to trick the Rangers into thinking that Cody was eaten, and kidnaps him in an attempt to force him to reveal the whereabouts of Marahuté. A mouse, the bait in the trap, runs off to a secret outpost. From there, a telegram is sent to the Rescue Aid Society headquarters in New York City, and Bernard and Miss Bianca, the RAS elite field agents, are assigned to the mission, interrupting Bernards attempt to propose marriage to Bianca. They go to find Orville the albatross who aided them previously, but instead find his brother Wilbur. Bernard and Bianca convince Wilbur to fly them to Australia to save Cody. In Australia, they meet Jake, a hopping mouse who is the RAS local regional operative. Jake becomes infatuated with Bianca and starts flirting with her, much to Bernards dismay. He serves as their "tour guide" and protector in search of the boy. At the same time, Wilbur is immobilized when his spinal column is bent out of its natural shape, convincing Jake to send him to the hospital (an old abandoned ambulance). As Wilbur refuses to undergo surgery and escapes his captors, his back is unintentionally straightened in the struggle with the mouse medical staff. Cured, Wilbur departs in search of his friends. At McLeachs ranch, Cody has been thrown into a cage with several of McLeachs captured animals after refusing to give up Marahutés whereabouts. Cody tries to free himself and the animals, but is thwarted by Joanna, McLeachs pet goanna. Realizing that Marahutés eggs are Codys weak spot, McLeach tricks Cody into thinking that someone else has shot Marahuté, making Cody lead him to Marahutés nest. Bernard, Bianca and Jake, knowing that Cody is in great danger, jump onto McLeachs halftrack to follow him. At Marahutés nest, the three mice try to warn Cody that he has been followed; just as they do, McLeach arrives and captures Marahuté, along with Cody, Jake and Bianca. On McLeachs orders, Joanna tries to eat Marahutés eggs, only to discover that they are just egg-shaped stones. Fearing that McLeach might be angry with her, Joanna drops the stones over the cliff. When she leaves, Bernard crawls out of the nest with the hidden eggs, grateful that Joanna fell for the trick. Wilbur arrives at the nest, whereupon Bernard convinces him to sit on the eagles eggs so that Bernard can go after McLeach. Fed up with Codys interference, McLeach takes his captives to Crocodile Falls, where he ties Cody up and hangs him over a group of crocodiles in attempts to feed him to them. However, Bernard, riding a wild razorback pig, which he had tamed using a horse whispering technique used by Jake on a snake earlier, follows and disables McLeachs vehicle. McLeach then tries to shoot the rope holding Cody above the water. To save Cody, Bernard tricks Joanna into crashing into McLeach, sending both of them into the water. The crocodiles attack McLeach and Joanna, while behind them the damaged rope holding Cody breaks apart. While Joanna flees to shore, McLeach fends off the crocodiles, but forgets until too late about the huge waterfall and goes over it to his death. Bernard dives into the water to try and save Cody, buying Jake and Bianca enough time to free Marahuté for her to save both Cody and Bernard. Bernard, desperate to prevent any further incidents, proposes to Bianca, who eagerly and happily accepts while Jake salutes him with a new-found respect. Safe at last, the group departs for Codys home. Meanwhile, Marahutés eggs finally hatch, much to Wilburs chagrin.
The Rescuers Down Under
1990