In 1919, Terence (Dan Dailey) and Molly Donahue (Ethel Merman), a husband-and-wife vaudeville team known as the Donahues, pursue both a stable family life as well as professional success. Their children, Steve (Johnnie Ray), Katy (Mitzi Gaynor), and Tim (Donald OConnor) join the act one by one, and their act eventually becomes the Five Donahues. The family is a success and soon hit the top. One night after a show, a worried Molly and Terry return home alone while Katy goes out on a date, Steve takes a walk, and the womanizing Tim goes out with an older chorus girl. Katy and Tim both wind up at a nightclub where Tim teases Victoria Hoffman (Marilyn Monroe). Vicky forgets Tims wisecracks, however, when Eddie (Frank McHugh), her agent, informs her that he has persuaded famed producer Lew Harris (Richard Eastham) to visit the club. With the help of her co-workers, Vicky gets onstage and impresses Lew and Tim with her singing. Backstage, Vicky learns that Tim is one of the well known Donahues but quickly dismisses him in order to talk business with Harris.  Back at the Donahue home, Steve informs his family that he wants to become a priest. Terry is distraught over his sons decision, but their discussion is interrupted by the appearance of Tim, who got drunk after he was dismissed by Vicky. After Steve leaves for seminary school, the rechristened Four Donahues accept an engagement in Miami. Upon arrival, Tim is thrilled to find that Hoffman, now known as Vicky Parker, is also appearing there; however she is performing a considerably more sensual version of Heat Wave, the same number as the family. After falling in complete lust with Vickys performance at rehearsal, Tim gives his approval for her to perform the number without checking with the family beforehand. Katy begins dating Charlie Gibbs (Hugh OBrian) the shows tall and spare lyricist, and Tim continues dating Vicky. After a misunderstanding over a broken dinner date with Vicky, Tim goes out drinking with a chorus girl and gets in a car accident. Molly and Terry learn of the accident just hours before opening night of the show for which Vicky and Katy have been rehearsing, and Terry goes down to the hospital to confront Tim about his conduct. Tim rebuffs the advice, whereupon Terry slaps him across the face and storms out. The next day, Terry and Molly go back to the hospital to pick up Tim but discover that he has vanished, leaving behind a note apologizing for his behavior. Molly and Terry are both heartbroken but decide to take action. Molly convinces Harris that, while shed have to fake the dancing, a feat with which shes been getting away for years, she can go on in Tims place, having been at rehearsal every night for months. Steve has been called up into the Army as a chaplain and been sent to Europe where his whereabouts are also unknown. Weeks later, the show is a rounding success, but Terry is still despondent over the loss of Tim. After dropping Molly off at the theatre to perform that night, he disappears on the road in a quest for his son, which understandably devastates a very high-strung Molly, having all three of the men in her life with their whereabounts now unknown.  Months later at a benefit show for the closing night of the famed Hippodrome Theatre in New York, Katy, who has since become close friends with Vicky, arranges for her to share a dressing room with her mother to teach her a very well-deserved lesson. Seeing through her daughters manipulation and highly annoyed threat, Molly begins to pack up and head upstairs for some peace and quiet, however, Katy not only tells her mother that shell be doing nothing of the kind, but that she needs to apologize to Vicky for snubbing her at every turn for the past year. Highly incensed at the very idea, she demands to know why and Katy calmly tells her that what happened to Tim, he brought on all by himself. Seeing the truth about her youngest son, Molly relents and has a long talk with Vicky, who assures her that she never did play around on Tim and that shes loved him all along. They make up and Vicky takes her place backstage. Steve comes in unexpectedly, they share a hug, and Molly admits that she was pretty hardheaded too and never gave Vicky the proper chance she deserved. As Molly performs the title song, Steve and Katy watch from the wings; then Tim, wearing a US Navy uniform, appears behind them. Thrilled to be reunited, the Five Donahues, with Vicky holding tightly onto Tims hand, all go onstage and happily reprise a short encore of their version of "Alexanders Ragtime Band" before reprising with a finale of the title song.
There's No Business Like Show Business (film)
1954