In 1985, 16-year-old high school student Ted Stroehmann is about to go on a prom date with his dream girl Mary Jensen when he gets his scrotum stuck in a zipper. He is hospitalized when it bleeds after being unzipped, which cancels their date. Ted subsequently loses contact with Mary. Thirteen years later, in 1998, 29-year-old Ted is still in love with Mary. On the advice of his best friend Dom Woganowski, he hires a private detective named Pat Healy to track her down. Pat discovers that she is an orthopedic surgeon living in Miami with her friend, Magda, and instantly falls in love with Mary as well. He lies to Ted about her, saying she is overweight with four children and confined to a wheelchair, to discourage him from having any contact with her. Pat resorts to lying, cheating, stalking, and drugging Magdas dog to win Mary over, but is exposed by Marys British architect friend, Tucker, who is heavily reliant on crutches. Pat later feels guilty about lying to Mary and reveals his true self to her. Enraged after overhearing Tucker subsequently slander him as a murderer, Pat tails Tucker and discovers him to be a fraud himself: he is an able-bodied, entirely American pizza delivery boy named Norm Phipps who is also in love with Mary. For years, Norm has been driving away potential rivals through slander, including one oft-mentioned suitor referred to only as "Brett." Meanwhile, Ted decides he still wants to reconnect with Mary and, assisted by Dom, drives down to Florida and discovers the truth about her. Ted seems to have won Marys love, until an anonymous letter exposes his connection with Pat, and she breaks contact with him. Ted confronts Pat and Norm, and Mary is accosted by Dom, who is revealed to be her ex-boyfriend "Woogie" that she has a restraining order against. He wants to reconnect with her as well, which she quickly refuses. When Mary is finally together with all of her deceitful suitors, Ted realizes that the only one who did not resort to lying or manipulation to win over Mary was Brett, who he learns is NFL quarterback Brett Favre. After reuniting Brett and Mary, Ted leaves tearfully until Mary catches up to Ted, saying that "Id be happiest with you". The film concludes with the two engaging in a kiss while a guitarist, who has periodically narrated the story in song throughout the film, is accidentally shot by Magdas boyfriend, who was trying to shoot Ted so he could win over Mary.
There's Something About Mary
1998