Princess Anne (Mary Astor) plans to run away with Freddie Granton (Anthony Bushell), the commoner secretary of her father, King Eric VIII (Lowell Sherman), once her domineering mother, Queen Martha (Nance ONeil), has left for a vacation in America. Anne is therefore aghast when the Marquis of Birten (Alan Roscoe) brings news that he has negotiated her political marriage to Prince William of Grec (Hugh Trevor), a man she has never even met. Dismissing Annes vehement protests, the Queen is delighted, a feeling not shared by Annes loving but ineffectual father. Meanwhile, the Premier and General Northrup (Robert Warwick) warn that a revolution is brewing. He wishes to execute large numbers of political prisoners, but cannot without the Kings signature. The Queen wholeheartedly approves of these stern measures. The King promises to attend to it, but after Northrup and the Queen leave, he orders his secretary to misplace the death warrants. Led by Laker (Carrol Naish), the rebels rise up after Northrup gets Parliament to grant him dictatorial powers. Anne seizes the opportunity to try to flee with Granton, with her fathers approval. However, when she believes that the King is in real danger, she refuses to leave him. Doctor Fellman (Frederick Burt), a moderate rebel leader, comes to see the King to demand his abdication, but agrees to stop the fighting in favor of negotiation. Then Northrup insists he is in charge now and laughs in derision when the King claims the people are stronger than Northrups army and navy. Next to arrive is Prince William. Despite his admission that he dislikes Anne, he is prepared to do his duty and go through with the wedding. Then Fellman and Laker show up. The King surprises Northrup by dismissing him from his service and putting Fellman in charge, ordering him to set up general elections as soon as possible. The Queen, newly returned from America with a much-needed loan, tells her husband in private that she knew the whole revolution was a bluff to force Northrup from power. The King has one last deception planned (of which she is unaware). After she leaves for the wedding, he has Granton brought to him. He speedily marries Anne and Granton and sends them on their way to "exile" in France.
The Royal Bed
1931