Corporate engineer Joe Ross has invented a potentially lucrative and secret financial process. While on a retreat on the island of St. Estèphe, he meets a wealthy stranger, Jimmy Dell, and attracts the interest of one of the companys new secretaries, Susan Ricci. Jimmy wants to introduce Joe to his sister, an Olympic-class tennis player, in New York and asks him to deliver a package to her. Susan sits near Joe on the airplane back to New York, converses with him about how "you never know who anybody is," and talks about unwitting drug mules. Realizing that he doesnt really know Jimmy, and afraid the package might contain something illegal, Joe opens it on the plane, finding only a 1939 edition of the book Budge on Tennis, and accidentally rips the cover in the process. Once home, Joe buys another copy of the book, to give to Jimmys sister, and keeps the torn one at his office. Jimmy suggests that Joes company and his boss, Mr. Klein, might not give Joe fair compensation for his work. The flirtatious Susan also keeps making suggestions that one never knows whom to trust. Jimmy invites Joe to dinner with Jimmys sister, and they meet at Dells place. While at his computer and chatting about business, Jimmy asks if Joe has a Swiss bank account, and finding the answer is no, opens one for him with the token balance of 15 Swiss francs, pretending that it is all an easy lark. Taking him to dinner at a club requiring membership, Jimmy has Joe sign a certificate to join. Over dinner, he advises Joe to consult legal counsel about his position in the company regarding the Process; Jimmy offers his own lawyer, telling Joe to bring the only copy of the Process to their meeting. Joe learns that the sister does not actually exist and that Jimmy is really a con artist who is attempting to steal Joes work. Joe contacts Pat McCune, a woman he met on the island whom Susan told him was an FBI agent, and whose business card Susan kept. He is enlisted in a sting operation. When Jimmy Dell never shows up for the planned meeting, to his horror, Joe learns that McCune is actually part of Jimmys con game. His Process is stolen. Joe attempts to explain what happened to his employer and the police, but his story sounds far-fetched. The con has made it appear that he has sold his Process to the Japanese. The Swiss bank account that Jimmy opened for him makes it look as though he is hiding assets, and the certificate he signed to join the club turns out to be a request for political asylum in Venezuela, which has no extradition treaty with the United States. The police show Joe that Jimmys apartment is a mere façade and that the clubs members-only room was nothing but a restaurant that was closed. Joe is also framed for the murder of his co-developer of the process, George Lang. On the run, Joe reconnects with Susan, who says she believes his story and continues to express a romantic interest in him. Joe remembers that the hotel on the island maintains video surveillance, which could prove that Jimmy Dell was there. Susan takes him to the airport in order to fly to the island. On the way to the airport, Susan convinces him to drive to Boston (to elude a manhunt). At the airport in Boston, Susan gives him a camera bag, which contains a gun, and an airplane ticket to the island, but actually to Venezuela. Before passing through security, Joe realizes that Jimmy left his fingerprints on the original tennis book Joe was to deliver. He leaves the airport with Susan, still not realizing that she is working against him. They board a ferry to return home. Jimmy comes to kill Joe on the ferry, seemingly alone except for Susan and a couple of Japanese tourists. The final step of this con is going to be Joes death, made to appear as a suicide. Jimmy suddenly is hit with a tranquilizer dart shot by one of the tourists, who are actually US Marshals who have been monitoring Jimmys con. They reveal that Joes boss, Mr. Klein, was behind the entire con because he wanted to keep all the profits for himself. Jimmy and Susan are taken to jail.
The Spanish Prisoner
1997