James Hoyt and his girlfriend Kristen McKay arrive at James remote childhood summer home, tired and irritable after a long evening at a friends wedding reception. At the wedding, James proposed to Kristen and she refused. James calls his friend Mike and asks him pick him up in the morning. Shortly after 4 a.m., there is a loud knock at the door. A young blonde woman, whose face is hiding in the shadows, asks for Tamara. When told that she is at the wrong house, she leaves with the casual caveat that she will "See them later." Due to the tension between them, James leaves to go for a drive and purchase a pack of cigarettes for Kristen; before he departs, he starts a fire in the hearth. Shortly after he leaves, Kristen realizes the chimney flue is closed, and attempts to open it; while she does this, smoke emanating from the fire triggers a smoke alarm. Kristen attempts to disarm the smoke alarm when she is startled by another knock at the door; she drops the alarm on the floor and retreats to the bedroom, unnerved. She calls James cellphone from the landline, but their call is cut short. She returns to the kitchen, where, unbeknownst to her, a man in a sack mask watches her from an adjacent hallway. In the living room, Kristen notices the smoke alarm she left on the floor is now sitting on a chair, and realizes someone else has been in the house. Upon going to retrieve her cell phone from the wall charger, she finds it is missing, and begins to panic. When she hears a noise from the backyard, she arms herself with a knife, and opens the curtains to find the man in the mask, staring at her. She stumbles into the hallway, and watches as the front door unlatches. When she goes to push the door closed, she sees the blonde woman outside, now in a dollface mask. After locking the door, Kristen hides in the bedroom and hears the strangers outside banging violently against the walls of the house. The noise eventually stops and James returns to the home. After she explains what has happened, he goes outside to the car to get his phone, whereupon he find the car ransacked and sees Dollface watching him from afar. The couple attempt to leave in James car but another woman in a Pin-up mask rear-ends them with a pickup truck, forcing them to flee. Back inside the house, Kristen and James find a shotgun and wait for the intruders in a bedroom. One of the strangers enters and put on a country record on the turntable, filling the house with music. Mike arrives and realizes something is wrong after seeing the smashed car in the driveway. He enters the house, and James, mistaking him for one of the strangers, shoots him dead. Devastated, James remembers an old radio transmitter in the backyard shed. He leaves and encounters Pin-up searching the backyard with a flashlight. When James tries to shoot her, the Man in the Mask knocks him unconscious, discharging the gun in the process. Kristen hears the shot, and runs to the shed. She finds the radio, but Pin-up smashes it with an sledgehammer. Kristen rushes back to the house, where she encounters Dollface, who taunts her. She tries to leave but is incapacitated by the Man in the Mask. James and Kristen awaken at dawn, and find themselves tied to chairs in the living room with the masked strangers standing before them. Kristen asks them why they are doing this, to which Dollface replies, "Because you were home." The strangers then unmask themselves to the couple offscreen, and take turns stabbing the couple in the stomach and chest before leaving the home. As they drive away in the pickup truck, they ride past two young Mormon boys on bicycles distributing religious tracts door-to-door. Dollface gets out of the truck and asks for a tract. The boy asks if shes a sinner and she replies, "Sometimes." The strangers drive away, as Pin-up states, "Itll be easier next time." The two boys come upon the house and discover the chaotic scene, including the bodies of Kristen, James, and Mike inside. One of the boys approach Kristens body, and as he reaches out to her, she wakes up and screams revealing she is still alive.
The Strangers (2008 film)
2008