Kay is an abstract visual artist who has been plagued since childhood by a series of disturbing dreams. The intensity and frequency of the dreams have fluctuated over the course of her life, as has their content; some of her dreams are simply of glimpses of desolate locations that leave her feeling dread upon awakening, while others feature the gruesome deaths of her friends and loved ones at the hands of a supernatural force. Recently, her dreams have become more frequent and disturbing than ever, resulting in a shift in the quality of her work. Afraid that the dreams are aggravated by stress and depression, and fearful that her newfound success may be slipping away, Kays family and friends plan a vacation for her to a small island off the coast of Georgia. Accompanying Kay are her husband David , Kays brother Eric, who introduced her to David; and Erics wife Brooke. As the couples plane prepares to land, their pilot, Marsh, informs them that hes just received notification that an Atlantic hurricane has shifted course towards the island. Marsh hurriedly drops the couple off, telling them that he has to leave the island before hes stranded there. The couples discover that, against expectations, the island is deserted, and populated largely by derelict buildings and the ruins of a once-thriving resort town. Kay informs the rest of the quartet that the island is the place she has been dreaming about since childhood, and that they are all in danger if they stay there. Unable to leave due to the hurricane, Brooke, David, and Eric try to assuage her fears. The following evening, David is murdered by an unseen assailant, and Kay dreams of waking up next to his severed head. That day, she finds Davids decapitated body hanging in an abandoned playhouse on the island. Eric believes that Marsh never left the island and brought the couples there to kill them, a supposition that is granted some support when Marsh is later seen on the island. Kay believes that the island has allowed her dreams to cross over into reality, and that the creature from her nightmares is responsible—a theory supported by the fact that the deaths only occur when Kay is asleep. Additionally, it becomes apparent that Kay herself may be the killer, murdering in the throes of a somnambulistic trance out of repressed resentment towards her loved ones. As night falls, Eric goes to retrieve flares from a boathouse, and is murdered on the beach before being dragged into the ocean. Later, Brooke is attacked in the boathouse and impaled with a pitchfork. After finding their bodies on the beach, Kay barricades herself in the beach house and struggles to stay awake, incessantly drinking coffee and smoking cigarettes to remain stimulated. In the middle of the night, Marsh attempts to gain entry into the house. Kay shoots him with a flare gun which kills him and sets the house on fire. In the chaos, Kay discovers a flaming, skeletal creature waiting for her at the front door. As the grotesque creature approaches her, Kay—as a child—is woken up on Christmas morning by her parents. Kay tells them that she had a nightmare and describes the events of the film; it is unclear whether the scene is a flashback or if the film itself was merely a nightmare. After telling her parents about the dream, Kays father presents her with a black cat, and Eric enters the room. Kay looks at the cat and becomes visibly frightened.
The Slayer (film)
1982