Captain Karl Ehrlich (John Wayne) is the master of the elderly German steam freighter Ergenstrasse, docked at Sydney, Australia, on the eve of the Second World War. Ehrlich is a former career naval officer who lost his rank and position after refusing to support the current Nazi regime. As his ship prepares for sea (to avoid being interned if war is declared), he meets with an old friend, British Commander Jeff Napier (David Farrar), and Napiers German fiancée Elsa Keller (Lana Turner). Ehrlich knows Elsa has a dubious past and tries to break them up. Germany has invaded Poland, and war is imminent. As his ship prepares to slip away, Ehrlich receives a visit from the German Consul-General, who asks him to take aboard a spy who is facing capture. It is only after the Ergenstrasse slips out of harbour in thick fog that Ehrlich discovers the spy is in fact Elsa, who seduced Napier for the information she could learn. She is cynically dismissive of Ehrlichs old-fashioned personal integrity. Ehrlichs chief officer, the pro-Nazi Kirchner (Lyle Bettger), who is also with German intelligence, soon makes a pass at Elsa, but she tells him to be patient. Old, slow and short on coal, the Ergenstrasse is seen as easy prey by the Australian Navy and by Napier in particular, who understandably holds a grudge. But Napier is the only man who does not underestimate Ehrlich. The wily captain leads his enemies on a chase across the Pacific Ocean, beginning with a run to the south to throw off pursuit, and pausing for supplies at an unmanned rescue station on Auckland Island. Three fishermen are already marooned there; Kirchner casually murders them, but tells no one. Napier later discovers the bodies and believes his old friend is responsible. He vows to bring the German to justice as a war criminal. Ehrlich sets course for a remote, uninhabited mid-Pacific island, Pom Pom Galli in the Tuamotus. Running out of coal, he begins burning wood from the ship for fuel, upsetting the crew when he orders the lifeboats burned. A potential mutiny is averted when they reach the island. There, Ehrlich drives the crew to cut trees for fuel, but impresses Elsa on several occasions by showing a humane side. Discovering that Kirchner murdered the fishermen, Ehrlich forces him to sign a true account of his actions in the ships log. Meanwhile, Napier convinces the Rockhamptons captain that his old friend will make for Pom Pom Galli, which he spoke of visiting before. They arrive just too late to catch him, first at Pom Pom Galli and then en route to Valparaíso in neutral Chile, where Napier cannot attack. While in port, Napier confronts Ehrlich about the murders; Ehrlich says that if they catch the Ergenstrasse they can read the truth in his log. Meanwhile Elsa learns the truth herself, dumps Kirchner, and declares her love for Ehrlich. Luck is with the Ergenstrasse when the Rockhampton is called away to support the cruisers facing the German pocket battleship Graf Spee in Montevideo, Uruguay. Napier requests a transfer to the British Naval patrols in the North Sea, believing that Ehrlich must pass through the patrols in his attempt to reach Kiel, and flies to England as the Ergenstrasse departs for Germany. For political reasons, German radio broadcasts a message through Lord Haw-Haw that discloses the position of the Ergenstrasse as it passes Norway, thus giving up the ship and crew to the Royal Navy and to the waiting Napier, now commanding a corvette. Napier tracks down Ehrlichs ship and sinks it in the North Sea; only Ehrlich, Elsa, and an unwilling Kirchner remain aboard for the short, one-sided battle. It is left unclear whether they die, but the other crewmen hand over the ships log to Napier, proving that Kirchner committed the murders alone.
The Sea Chase
1955