During World War II, Flying Tiger triple ace Lieutenant Fred Atwill (Astaire) and his almost-as-successful comrades, Reginald Fenton (Robert Ryan) and Richard Merlin (an uncredited Richard Davies), are brought back to the United States for a ticker tape parade and a ten-day "leave". The only trouble is, they are expected to spend all their time on a nationwide morale-boosting tour. Fred sneaks off the train at a rural stop to seek some fun. He eventually ends up in New York City. He spots a beautiful woman, Joan Manion (Leslie), going into a nightclub and follows her in. Eavesdropping, he learns that she is a newspaper photographer fed up with taking pictures of celebrities. Her pleas for an assignment in a war zone fall on deaf ears. Her boss, newspaper publisher Phil Harriman (Robert Benchley), likes her just where she is, nearby so he can try to wear her down and persuade her to marry him. Fred, giving himself the last name "Burton" to hide his identity, romances her himself in an annoyingly persistent way, even renting a room in the building she lives in. Eventually, however, she starts to like him, despite what she considers to be a lack of ambition on his part; he does not seem to have or want a job. She lets him take her on a date, though she steers him into a crowded canteen (where she does volunteer work) entertaining servicemen. When a performer cancels on short notice, Joan is recruited to sing a number; Fred invites himself along and sings and dances with her. Afterward, he runs into his fellow pilots. While Richard dances with Joan, Reginald amuses himself by blackmailing Fred into doing a snake dance on the table in exchange for not revealing who he really is. Joan tries hard to get Fred a job. When she learns that he once worked as a reporter, she arranges an interview with Phil. Fred, with his leave running out, instead spends the time giving Phil pointers on how to win Joan over, even setting up a romantic dinner at Phils penthouse with the assistance of Jackson (Eric Blore), Phils butler. Phil blunders, however, and reveals to Joan what Fred is doing, and it is Fred who ends up spending the evening with her. Joan proposes marriage, leaving Fred in an uncomfortable situation. Later, Reginald informs Fred that their leave has been cut short; they only have two more days. Since Fred still does not have a job, Joan takes him along to a banquet honoring airplane manufacturer Harvey J. Sloan (an uncredited Clarence Kolb). She introduces Fred to Sloan, but instead of making a good impression as he had promised, he criticizes the fighter built by Sloan. When Joan finds out, she breaks up with him. Afterward, Phil takes him to a bar, where he reveals that he has found out Freds true identity. Fred asks him to keep his secret, and proceeds to get drunk, going bar hopping to the song "One for My Baby". The next day, Phil makes one last attempt to get Joan to marry him. When that fails, he sends her to the airfield to take pictures of pilots returning to the fighting in the Pacific. There she spots Fred in his uniform, and all becomes clear to her. They embrace, and Fred confesses he loves her before he has to leave.
The Sky's the Limit (1943 film)
1943