On a rainy night in 1928 in a Pennsylvania factory town called Iverstown, thirteen-year-old Martha Ivers (Janis Wilson) tries to run away from the guardianship of her wealthy, domineering aunt Mrs. Ivers (Judith Anderson) with her friend, the street-smart, poor Sam Masterson (Darryl Hickman), but is caught and brought home where Marthas tutor Walter ONeil (Roman Bohnen) presents his timid son Walter Jr. (Mickey Kuhn) as the one responsible for Marthas recovery. Scolded by her aunt, Martha defiantly states her name is not Ivers, but Smith - her fathers name. During a power failure caused by the rain, Sam comes for her, but Marthas aunt downstairs hears her calling to him. While Sam slips out unnoticed, Mrs. Ivers starts beating Marthas kitten with her cane. Martha wrestles it away from her and strikes her across the head, causing her to fall down the staircase and die. When the power comes back on, Martha lies about the incident to Walters father, and Walter Jr. - who saw everything - backs her up. The greedy Mr. ONeil makes it clear to both Walter and Martha that he knows what happened but that as long as he and his son stand to benefit, he will play along. In the meantime, Sam has hopped a freight train headed out of town. In 1946, the elder ONeil is now dead. Walter Jr. (Kirk Douglas) is now Iverstowns district attorney and is married to Martha (Barbara Stanwyck) who has used her inheritance to expand the Ivers milling empire, and her influence to get Walter elected as governor of Pennsylvania. Their marriage is one-sided; he loves her, but Walter knows that she does not love him. Sam (Van Heflin), now a former soldier and itinerant gambler, drives into the small town by chance and after an accident, leaves his car to be repaired. While waiting, he goes to look at his old home, now a boarding house. There he meets Antonia "Toni" Marachek (Lizabeth Scott), who has just been released from jail. She is later picked up for violating her probation by not returning to her hometown. Sam goes to see Walter to see if he can use his influence to get her released. Walter is convinced Sam has blackmail in mind, and in the meantime Sam learns that Walters father presented Marthas version of the 1928 accidental murder to the police: that an intruder murdered Marthas aunt; and that with his leverage he made Martha marry his son. When the police identified a former employee of the aunt as the murderer, the two ONeils and Martha helped convict him - and he was hanged for a crime he didnt commit. When Martha reacts with joy at seeing Sam, Walter also becomes jealous. Walter forces Toni to set Sam up. Sam is beaten up and driven out of town, but he is too tough to be intimidated. When all else fails, Walter makes a halfhearted attempt to kill Sam himself, but is easily disarmed. Martha then inadvertently blurts out the couples fears of blackmail, only to learn that Sam did not witness the death. Martha breaks down and laments that he left without her all those years ago, taking with him her only chance for love and freedom. Sam is torn between his old love and his new. Although he eventually forgives Toni for betraying him, he and Martha spend an idyllic day together, rekindling his feelings for her. Walter arranges to meet Sam to finally settle matters. Before Sam arrives, Walter gets drunk and Martha finds out about the meeting. When Walter falls down the stairs, Martha urges Sam to kill her unconscious husband. Sam instead brings Walter around. Martha pulls out a gun and threatens to shoot Sam in "self defense" as an intruder. Sam tells her it would work - if she can get Walter to corroborate her story. He then turns his back on her and leaves. Walter embraces and kisses his wife; then he points the gun at her midriff. Oddly relieved, she puts her hand over his hand on the trigger and presses. As she is dying, she defiantly states her name is not Martha Ivers, but Martha Smith, her deceased fathers name. Outside, Sam hears the shot. He runs back toward the mansion, but sees Walter, holding Marthas body, shoot himself. Sam and Toni drive away together.
The Strange Love of Martha Ivers
1946