In Bangor, Maine in 1824, a cruel young girl named Jenny Hager pushes a terrified Ephraim Poster into a river knowing he cannot swim. She is prepared to let him drown until Judge Saladine (Alan Napier) happens by, at which point Jenny jumps into the water and takes credit for saving the boys life. About ten years later, Jenny (Hedy Lamarr) has grown up to be a beautiful but equally heartless and manipulative young woman. Her father, an abusive, drunken widower, whips Jenny after learning of her flirtation with a sailor. She secretly schemes to wed the richest man in town, the much older timber baron Isaiah Poster (Gene Lockhart), while his son Ephraim (Louis Hayward) is away at college in Cambridge. Poster is unkind to his mild-mannered son upon Ephraims return. He is unaware that the boy and Jenny were once sweethearts and that Jenny is again flirting with Ephraim behind her husbands back. Poster is more concerned about the lawlessness in town, lumberjacks drunkenly pillaging the town, manhandling the women and killing the judge, confirming Posters long-held belief that Bangor must organize a police force. Jenny secretly hopes that her husband will die after he falls ill. When he recovers, Poster must make a trip to his lumber camps. Jenny appeals to Ephraim to arrange his fathers death, saying, "I want you to return alone." In the rapids, both men fall from an overturned canoe and Poster drowns. His son, still deathly afraid of water, is unable or unwilling to save him. To his shock, Ephraim returns to Jenny telling him, "You cant come into this house, you wretched coward...Youve killed your father." He becomes a hopeless drunk, hating her and speaking freely about her deceitful ways. Posters superintendent in the timber business, John Evered (George Sanders), goes to confront Ephraim but isnt sure whether to believe the harsh words he hears about Jenny. Jenny proceeds to seduce Evered, who is engaged to marry her best friend, Meg Saladine (Hillary Brooke), the judges daughter. Lust overtakes them during a thunderstorm. After their wedding, Evered is eager to have children, but Jenny learns she cannot bear any. She confesses this to her new husband after some delay, fearful of his rejection of her, but to Jennys relief, John wholeheartedly affirms his love. A traveling evangelist, Lincoln Pettridge (Edward Biby), preaches fire and brimstone that results in Jennys searing confession to her husband that all Ephraim had said about her was true. Evered goes off to be by himself at a lumber camp, and Jenny learns that Meg has left see Evered there. In the cabin, knowing of his love for Jenny, she tells him to go back to his wife. Jenny pulls up to the cabin right afterward and, seeing them together frantically whips her horse, bearing down on them down with her carriage. It hits a rock, careens off a cliff and Jenny is mortally wounded. Her dying words are an expression of her passionate feelings for John, who has let her know true love.
The Strange Woman
1946