The story takes place in Torrance, California, sometime in the late 1970s. A pugilistic ex-convict known as "Crumps Brother" is picked up by a local teen while hitchhiking on the freeway and informs him about two women he intends to party with in Torrance Beach. The teen then informs his friends about the situation, but no one wishes to anger Crumps Brother by tagging along. Joe and Hubbs, as they drive around town in their 1973 Volkswagen Type 3 Squareback, The "Blue Torpedo" looking for drugs and women. They come across Tack, who informs them of the girls. Their friend Crump, the gas station attendant, also tells them of the girls. They strand Tack at the gas station, and head for Torrance Beach. They arrive at the house and find an extremely attractive girl named Lanie who sends them off to a liquor store for alcohol. When they return, they find the homeowners daughter Jill, a misanthropic hippie girl who is Lanies friend. In the meantime, Tack conscripts his nerdy friend Norm "Snot-rag" Hankey to take him to the beach. They arrive at the house and after a brief scuffle, Tack entices cooperation with news of a party in Palos Verdes, much to Joe and Hubbs chagrin. At the house party, Muldoon, the party host, lets the girls in but shuts everyone else out. Lanie leaves following an altercation with Muldoon and drafts Joe to take her swimming in a neighbors pool. The police shut down the party, and Hubbs and Jill locate Joe and Lanie next door. Lanie is smitten with Hubbs aggressive nature, much to Joes chagrin, and the two walk upstairs for sex. Having lost their beer to the police, Tack and the others raid a liquor warehouse for beer, and head for the house. Joe and Jill partially reconcile but return to find Tack and the Guzzlers converging on the home. A fight breaks out between Joe and Tack and Jill runs inside, eventually letting Joe back in and locking the door. After getting stoned, Hubbs tells Joe hes arranged for Lanie to give him fellatio as a "birthday present". Joe finds that Lanie asleep, covers her up, and walks out; he finds Hubbs with Jill making out on the couch; Joe is upset but learns that Jill was the instigator. They are interrupted when Crumps Brother arrives outside and begins to break down the door. They flee to the kitchen but shortly afterwards, they hear the commotion dying out; Jills father, Warren, has returned from a college reunion and beaten the entire crowd of kids—including Crumps Brother—to unconsciousness with great ease. While Hubbs manages to escape by jumping through a window on the upper floor, Warren retains Joe and holds him hostage awaiting the arrival of the police. Eventually, a condescending lecture provokes a fight and Joe and Hubbs dramatically escape just ahead of the police. Enamored with Joe, Jill gives him her full name and geographical location ("north") so he can look her up later. The police arrest the entire crew of drunken teenagers, and Joe and Hubbs escape in the "Blue Torpedo". Hubbs jocularly chides Joe for his apparent cowardice in moving on Lanie and Jill, and dismisses Jill as a viable partner. Joe, no longer tolerant of Hubbs attitude, wrestles a surprised Hubbs into submission while driving and forces him to capitulate that Jill is "cool". Joe then places the Blue Öyster Cult 8-track tape into the deck and plays "(Dont Fear) the Reaper". The song plays as the Blue Torpedo drives off through the night. Following the credits, Joe and Hubbs are offered Blue Öyster Cult concert T-shirts outside a convenience store by two men, but Joe refuses because the shirts are bootlegs, and not official. The scalpers are played by actual Blue Öyster Cult band members Eric Bloom and Donald "Buck Dharma" Roeser.
The Stoned Age
1994