A pirate named Burger Beard travels to Bikini Atoll, where he obtains a magical book with the power to make any text written upon it real. The book tells the story of SpongeBob SquarePants and his adventures in the underwater city of Bikini Bottom. SpongeBob loves his job as a fry cook at the Krusty Krab fast food restaurant, where he cooks burgers called Krabby Patties and works for Mr. Krabs. He has spent years guarding the secret Krabby Patty formula from Plankton, the owner of a competing restaurant called the Chum Bucket. One day, Plankton attacks the Krusty Krab in an attempt to steal the formula. After a military battle involving giant foods and condiments, Plankton feigns surrender. He uses a decoy of himself to give Mr. Krabs a fake penny, which the real Plankton then hides inside in order to gain access to Krabs vault. As the decoy distracts Mr. Krabs, Plankton steals the formula, leaving a fake in its place. SpongeBob catches Plankton and the two engage in a tug of war over the formula, which magically vanishes before anyone can claim it. Without the secret formula, Krabby Patties cannot be made, causing customers to become ravenous. SpongeBob is the only one who believes Plankton is innocent and creates a giant soap bubble for them to fly away in. Bikini Bottom is immediately reduced to an apocalyptic wasteland due to the absence of the much-relied-on Krabby Patty. A page of the book is discarded in the ocean and lands on Sandy Cheeks treedome and assumes the page is a sign from the "sandwich gods". SpongeBob proposes he and Plankton team up to find the formula. SpongeBob tries to explain the concept of teamwork to Plankton, who does not quite understand. Together, they decide to travel back in time to the moment before the formula disappeared. The two then head to the Chum Bucket to rescue Karen, whom they intend to help power the time machine. They assemble the machine and end up traveling far into the future, where they meet Bubbles, a magical dolphin who acts as an overseer of the galaxy, and inadvertently get him fired. SpongeBob and Plankton succeed in retrieving the formula, but it turns out to be the fake one Plankton had left. Burger Beard converts his pirate ship into a food truck to sell Krabby Patties at a beach community. Sandy suggests a sacrifice be made to appease the gods. As the town attempts to sacrifice SpongeBob by executing him using a metal krabby patty shaped crusher, he and Mr. Krabs smell Krabby Patties. The townsfolk follow the scent, which leads to the surface. Bubbles returns and, revealing that he hated his job, repays SpongeBob by granting him and his sea creature friends the ability to breathe on land; Plankton also joins by stowing away in SpongeBobs sock. Bubbles launches SpongeBob and the others out of his blowhole to the surface. The team soon lands on a beach and finds the source of the Krabby Patty scent: Burger Beards food truck. Burger Beard reveals he stole the formula by using the book to rewrite the story and then uses it to banish the gang to Pelican Island. SpongeBob uses the books page that Sandy had to transform himself and the others into superheroes with special powers—The Invincibubble (SpongeBob), Mr. Superawesomeness (Patrick), Sour Note (Squidward), The Rodent (Sandy), and Sir Pinch-a-Lot (Mr. Krabs) but leave the page (and Plankton) behind. They return and find Burger Beard, who runs away with the formula, forcing the team to give chase. During the ensuing battle, the team manages to destroy the book, but Burger Beard overpowers them one by one. Plankton then appears as a muscle-bound hero named Plank-Ton and assists them. Plankton and SpongeBob create one final attack to defeat Burger Beard and retrieve the formula. After sending Burger Beard flying to Bikini Atoll, Plankton returns the formula to Mr. Krabs, having learned the value of teamwork. The gang uses the final pages magic to return home to Bikini Bottom. With Krabby Patties back, the city is finally returned to normal and Plankton re-assumes his role as business rival, thus returning everything to the status quo.
The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge Out of Water
2015