Set during the height of the Cold War, The Shoes of the Fisherman opens as protagonist Kiril Pavlovich Lakota (Anthony Quinn), the Metropolitan Archbishop of Lviv (or Lvov as it is spelled in the movie adaptation), is unexpectedly set free after twenty years in a Siberian labour camp by his former jailer, Piotr Ilyich Kamenev (Laurence Olivier), now the premier of the Soviet Union. He is sent to Rome, where the elderly fictional Pope (John Gielgud) makes him a Cardinal in the title of St. Athanasius. Lakota is reluctant, begging to be given "a simple mission with simple men," but the Pope insists that he kneel and receive the scarlet zucchetto that designates the rank of cardinal. When the Pontiff suddenly collapses and dies, the process of a papal conclave begins, and Cardinal Lakota participates as one of the electors. During the sede vacante, two cardinals in particular, Cardinal Leone (Leo McKern) and Cardinal Rinaldi (Vittorio De Sica) are shown to be papabili (candidates). After seven deadlocked ballots, Lakota is unexpectedly elected Pope as a compromise candidate (suggested by Cardinal Rinaldi) by acclamation after the cardinals, unable to decide between the leading candidates, interview him and are impressed by his ideas and his humility. Lakota takes the name of Pope Kiril. Meanwhile, the world is on the brink of nuclear war due to a Chinese–Soviet feud made worse by a famine caused by trade restrictions brought against China by the United States. The evening after his election, Pope Kiril, with the help of his valet, Gelasio (Arnoldo Foà), sneaks out of the Vatican and explores the city of Rome dressed as a simple priest. By chance, he encounters Dr. Ruth Faber, who is in a troubled marriage with a Rome-based television journalist, George Faber (David Janssen). Later, the Pope returns to the Soviet Union, dressed in civilian clothing, to meet privately with Kamenev and Chairman Peng (Burt Kwouk) of China to discuss the ongoing crisis. Pope Kiril realises that if the troubles in China continue, the cost could be a war that could ultimately rip the world apart. At his papal coronation, Kiril removes his tiara (in a gesture of humility) and pledges to sell the Churchs property to help the Chinese, much to the delight of the crowds in St. Peters Square below. A major secondary plot in the film is the Popes relationship with a controversial theologian and scientist, Father Telemond (Oskar Werner). The Pope becomes Telemonds close personal friend, but to his deep regret, in his official capacity, he must allow the Holy Office to censure Telemond for his heterodox views. To the Popes deep grief, Father Telemond dies.
The Shoes of the Fisherman
1968