Al Lewis (George Burns) and Willy Clark (Walter Matthau) are two elderly comedians who were once a popular vaudeville comedy act known as "Lewis and Clark" and also called the Sunshine Boys. After 43 years together, they parted ways 11 years ago on unfriendly terms and have not spoken to each other since then. The break-up was due, in part, to Als intent to retire and Willys desire to continue performing. Willys nephew, Ben (Richard Benjamin), a talent agent, tries finding work for Willy, which proves difficult due to Willys age and blustery temperament. When one of the major networks decides to air a program on the history of comedy and wants the Sunshine Boys to reunite for the show, Ben tries securing the duos cooperation one last time. Ben tries managing the individual quirks of two old men in their twilight years, including omitting the abuse and insults each used in discussing the other with him, and diplomatically portraying each as anxious to do the "Doctor Sketch" for an ABC special to give the appearance of harmony. An attempt to rehearse the Doctor Sketch at Willys apartment starts with the two grudgingly getting re-acquainted, but goes only as far as Al entering the doctors (Willys) office, before Willy decides to change the scripted long-established "Come in" to "Enter!" This results in a loud shouting argument and Als stormy departure. Ben has to patch up and salvage the situation, despite the objections of Als daughter to her father being bothered any more about the special and manages to get them in the studio. In the dressing room, they do not speak to each other as persons, just like they did in the last year they did their sketches. There is unpleasantness when Willy carelessly dumps makeup jars on Al, followed by Willys usual trouble with doors, in the dressing room. After Phyllis Diller finishes her scene and Steve Allen speaks his introduction, the Doctor Sketch starts. It flows smoothly until Willy starts shouting about Als spitting on him and poking him in the chest. Despite Ben and the staff trying to restore order, Willy finally storms off the set, shouting accusations and abuse, and Al also leaves (finding it impossible to work with the man). In the stairwell, Willys ongoing temper tantrum results in him being felled by a serious heart attack. Willy recovers, first in the hospital and then at home with a private nurse, with whom he argues. Ben visits and tells him that he has to retire now. He has in mind an actors retirement home. Al is also going to move into the same retirement home, as his daughter is going to have a baby, and she will need his room. The two meet again at Willys apartment, in attempts to finally establish a friendship.
The Sunshine Boys (1975 film)
1975