Trish Devereaux-Craven, an 18-year-old high school senior, decides to throw a slumber party while her parents are away for the weekend. Their neighbor, David Contant, is given the job of checking in on the girls during the night. She awakes to the sound of her radio and gets dressed shortly before going to school. Meanwhile, Russ Thorn, an escaped mass murderer with a preference for power drills, kills a telephone repair woman and steals her van. Trish meets up with her friends Kim, Jackie, and Diane, the girls on her basketball team. A new girl, Valerie Bates, is invited by Trish, but refuses after hearing Diane talking cruelly about her. Russ watches the girls leave school from the van and a girl, Linda, goes back inside the school to retrieve a book for a test, only to be locked inside and attacked by Russ, who injures her left arm. She eventually hides in the shower room, but the killer finds out where she is because of her blood loss, and kills her before escaping to the van. That evening, the party begins as the girls smoke marijuana and talk about boys. Valerie lives next door and is babysitting her younger sister, Courtney, while their recently divorced mother is away for the weekend with a new boyfriend. Dianes boyfriend John, and two boys from school, Jeff and Neil, arrive and spy on the girls undressing. Russ attacks and kills Mr. Contant with his power drill; meanwhile, Courtney is begging Valerie to go to the party, but Valerie protests. Diane makes out with John in the car and gets out to ask Trish permission to go with him, she comes back to find him decapitated. Diane tries to flee, but is murdered also. While the girls are on the phone with their coach, Mrs. Jana, the pizza guy is shown with his eyes drilled out. Coach Jana hears the girls screaming and calls Valerie to check on them, then decides to drive over to the house to check on them herself. The girls try calling the police, but Russ cuts the phone line before they are connected. The teens arm themselves with knives and Jeff and Neil try to run for help, but are killed by Russ. Russ gains entry to the house, murders Jackie, and chases Kim and Trish upstairs. Courtney and Valerie go over to the house, but find the house dark, unaware of the horror that has happened. Trish and Kim have barricaded themselves in Trishs bedroom. They hear Valerie and ignore her, thinking she may be the killers friend. Russ enters the bedroom through a window and disarms Kim, stabbing her with her own knife and Trish flees to hide. Courtney and Valerie enter Trishs house and find Kim dead. Russ attacks them, but Valerie escapes to the basement while Courtney hides under the couch. Coach Jana arrives and beats Russ with a fireplace poker, but he murders her. Trish stabs Russ with a butcher knife, but it barely slows him down. Valerie chases Russ with a machete out the back door. She severs his drill bit and his left hand, and he falls into the swimming pool. As the girls embrace, Russ emerges from the pool and attacks them. Valerie kills him by impaling the machete, killing him. Valerie and Trish break down into tears upon killing Russ. Courtney looks on in a state of shock as police sirens are heard in the distance.
The Slumber Party Massacre
1987