Academy Award-winning star Margaret "Maggie" Elliot (Bette Davis) is a bankrupt actress of a certain age struggling to accept her new non-wealthy reality. She is in denial, and confident she can somehow build herself up again and re-launch her career to its earlier brilliance. After suffering another big disappointment while vainly striving to get that last one good role, she gets drunk, is arrested for DUI, and spends a night in jail. She is bailed out by Jim Johannsen (Sterling Hayden), a younger former actor whom she had helped in the past. Jim, now comfortably settled as the owner of a boatyard, admits that he has loved her ever since those days and, helped by Margarets daughter Gretchen (Natalie Wood), tries to help Margaret see that her big screen days as a famous actress are already over. She reluctantly tries to work as a saleswoman in an upscale department store, but overhearing some unkind gossip from two customers wounds her pride and she runs out. Her old agent manages to get her a screen test for a role in a film shed always wanted to play. She is offered and takes a screen test for a supporting role, believing that if she plays that character as a sexy younger woman -- rather than the middle-aged frump she is seen as by the studio -- she might be able to win the more coveted lead role. It does not work out. At a Hollywood party thrown by her agent, she is offered a role in a new film about a fallen star who cant face the fact that its all over. This new script is dedicated to washed-up actors and actresses who are obsessed by their former glory, by what they used to look like, what kind of an impression they’d make to stay on top, and how they behaved -- demanding, bribing, power-hungry. It would be a story about those who cant look down and cant accept that their moment of glory is over and that the world has passed them by. Hearing the pitch delivered right to her face, and that shed be the perfect actress to play the role, seems to have finally helped Margaret realize the cold truth about her future. She realizes that her film career is indeed over, and she flees the party to the open arms of Jim and the love and acceptance of her daughter, from whom Margaret had previously desperately tried to shield her failing career.
The Star (1952 film)
1952