India, 1890. Mowgli (Jamie Williams) is a 10-year-old boy has been brought up in the jungle of India by his animal friends: the wolf pack, Baloo the bear and Bagheera the panther. However, Mowgli also has enemies in the jungle: Shere Khan the vicious tiger (who killed the boys father) and the Bandar-log (who are hated by nearly all animals of the jungle). After being found by Shere Khan and running away, Mowgli hears a train coming his way on the train tracks. The conductor stops the train when Mowgli is seen by humans. An American circus scout named Harrison, who is traveling through India along with Chunchandra, also takes a look at Mowgli. He thinks of bringing the man cub to America and taking him to the circus. Mowgli runs away and steals Chuchandras pet monkey Timo. Mowgli bonds with Timo, which forces the wolf pack to exile him, as Timo is thought to be a relative to the Bandar-log. The next day, Mowgli enters the Ancient city and finds Timo being kidnapped by the Bandar-log. When he and Baloo attempt to rescue him, Baloo is caged by the Bandar-log. Meanwhile, Harrison has sought the help of a wealthy jungle guide named Buldeo. Buldeo is none other than Mowglis paternal uncle: he knows that with Mowgli alive, he may be denied access to his late brothers wealth. The men soon meet a snake charmer, Karait, and his pet python, Kaa. Buldeo leads the men into the jungle to capture Mowgli, but secretly has plans to murder him. Using Kaa, the men kidnap Mowgli and take him to their camp. That night, Mowgli escapes during a battle with Shere Khan. Buldeo finds the boy and almost kills him, but fails due to Harrisons intervention. Mowgli is then placed in a cage. The next morning, Baloo breaks out and escapes from the city to arrive and free Mowgli. Mowgli and Baloo arrive at the ancient city where Mowgli finds Timo and also meets King Murphy, who wishes the boy to become king. The four men arrive to find Mowgli. Harrison is the first to find him. When he attempts to help the boy, Buldeo intervenes, injuring Harrison. He then attempts to shoot his nephew. Mowglis friends arrive and Buldeo goes to hide in a cannon. Later, Karait comes to help Mowgli using Kaa. Harrison now realizes that the circus is no place for the boy. Chuchandra is reunited with Timo as well. The Bandar-log are sent by King Murphy to light the cannon which Buldeo is hiding in - he is sent to the other side of the jungle where he hangs upside down from a tree and faces possible death by Shere Khan. Mowgli now runs with the wolf pack.
The Second Jungle Book: Mowgli & Baloo
1997