Sinbad the Sailor (Kerwin Mathews) and his crew land their ship on the island of Colossa, where they encounter Sokurah the magician (Torin Thatcher) fleeing from a giant cyclops. Though he escapes, Sokurah loses a magic lamp to the creature. Sinbad refuses his desperate pleas to return to the island because Parisa, Princess of Chandra (Kathryn Grant), is aboard. Sinbad has fallen in love with her, and their coming marriage is meant to secure peace between her fathers realm and Sinbads homeland, Baghdad.  After reaching Baghdad, Sokurah performs magic at the pre-wedding festivities, temporarily turning Parisas handmaiden into a serpent woman, but despite his prowess and a dark prophecy about war between Baghdad and Chandra, the Caliph of Baghdad (Alec Mango) refuses to help the magician return to Colossa. Later that night, Sokurah secretly shrinks the princess, enraging her father, the Sultan of Chandra (Harold Kasket), who declares war on Baghdad. Sinbad and the Caliph give in to Sokurah, who explains that the eggshell of a Roc is needed for the potion to restore Parisa, and it can be found only on Colossa. Sokurah provides Sinbad with the plans for a giant crossbow for protection against the islands giant creatures. Sinbad recruits additional crewmen from among the convicts in the Caliphs prisons. Before they reach Colossa, the cutthroats mutiny and capture Sokurah, Sinbad, and his men. During a violent storm, the sounds of keening demons from an island south of Colossa drives the crew nearly mad, endangering the ship. One of the men releases Sinbad so he can save the ship, while the mutineers leader falls to his death from the crows nest. On Colossa, Sinbad, Sokurah, and six others enter the Valley of the Cyclopes, followed by Sinbads loyal aide Harufa (Alfred Brown). Sinbad and Sokurah split their forces. Sinbad and his men find the Cyclopes treasure cave, but are captured by one of the creatures and locked in a wooden cage. In the meantime, Sokurah retrieves the magic lamp, but is chased by the cyclops, who kills three of the men. With Parisas aid, Sinbad manages to escape, then blinds the one-eyed creature and lures it off the edge of a cliff to its death. Sinbad decides to keep the lamp until Parisa is returned to normal size. Sokurah leads Sinbad and his starving men to the nesting place of the giant Rocs. Sinbads men crack open an egg and roast the unborn chick. While the men are eating, Parisa enters the magic lamp and befriends the childlike Genie inside, Barani (Richard Eyer), who tells her how to summon him in exchange for her promise of his freedom. The parent Roc returns and slays the remaining men. Sinbad tries to summon the genie, but he is grabbed by the Roc, who drops him unconscious into its nest. Sokurah kills Harufa and abducts the princess, taking her to his underground fortress. Sinbad awakes and rubs the magic lamp, summoning Barani, who takes Sinbad to Sokurahs fortress and helps him evade the chained dragon that stands guard. Sinbad reaches Sokurah, who restores the princess to normal. When Sinbad refuses to hand over the lamp, the magician animates a skeleton warrior, which Sinbad fights and destroys. With the help of the genie, Sinbad and Parisa make their way out of the cave, stopping to destroy the lamp by throwing it into a pool of lava, thus freeing Barani. Leaving the cave, they encounter another cyclops. Sinbad releases the dragon, which fights and kills the cyclops. Sinbad and Parisa make their escape, but Sokurah orders the dragon to hunt them down. Sinbad heads to the beach, where his men have readied the giant crossbow, and they use it to kill the dragon. The dying dragon collapses on Sokurah, crushing him to death. Sinbad, Parisa, and the remaining crew depart for Baghdad. They are joined by Barani, now human, who appoints himself as Sinbads cabin boy and, in a final act of magic, presents Sinbad and Parisa with the treasure from the cyclops cave as a wedding gift.
The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad
1958