The four adult sons of Katie Elder – John (John Wayne), who is a famous (or infamous) professional gunman; Tom (Dean Martin), a professional gambler; Bud (Michael Anderson, Jr.), the youngest brother, still in school; and Matt (Earl Holliman), an unsuccessful hardware dealer – reunite in their hometown of Clearwater, Texas (approximately 2 hours east of Dallas in northeast Texas), in 1898 for their mothers funeral, sharing regret that none of them has lived up to her high expectations of them. The townspeople and new deputy sheriff are unfriendly, to the two eldest John and Tom in particular. Katie Elder however was extremely well liked by everyone in the community, who were all aware of her honesty, her poverty and her undying love for the sons who neglected her. The brothers want to do something for Katies sake, and their plan is to send youngest son Bud to college, raising money through a sale of another mans herd of horses, even though Bud wants to emulate his eldest brother. Morgan Hastings (James Gregory), a gunsmith and rising entrepreneur, claims ownership of the Elders ranch for his Hastings Gun Manufactory, saying he won it from their father in a game of cards; Bass Elder afterwards was shot in the back at night, and the killer is still unknown. Hastings hides a hostile attitude towards the brothers and brings in a hired gun, Curley (George Kennedy). Noting Hastings suspicious attitude, the Elders begin to suspect foul play upon their return. Hastings claims Bass lost the ranch in a game of Blackjack, so John, in a ruse, states their father wouldnt have been caught dead playing Blackjack poker. When Hastings learns about the brothers investigations, he kills the well loved sheriff (Paul Fix) and frames the Elder brothers for the murder. Then, not content with seeing them go to prison, Hastings arranges an ambush while the Elders are being moved chained in a wagon to a nearby different county jail for safety at a wood timbered bridge over a stream in which Matt is killed and Bud seriously injured. Deputy Sheriff Ben Latta (Jeremy Slate) is not part of the conspiracy, but is shot and killed by Hastings when he decides to aid the Elders after seeing he had been fooled. The surviving Elders escape after the bridge is blown and the ambushers flee. Going back to town to get medical help for Bud, John and Tom barricade themselves in Hastings gun smithy shop. Tom manages to kidnap Hastings weak-willed son Dave (Dennis Hopper), although he is seriously injured in the process. Hastings shoots his own boy in an attempt to prevent him from testifying. In the presence of John Elder and the local judge, a wounded Dave manages to relate the tale of his fathers crimes before he dies. John takes up arms and kills Hastings by shooting up a cask of gunpowder inside his own gun store.
The Sons of Katie Elder
2005