The film starts with Elder Travis Robert Tuttle (Corbin Allred), looking up after saying a prayer. He is with his companion Elder Andrew Lee Propst (Maclain Nelson). The two have been held hostage by kidnappers in Saratov, Russia. The two begin to make a plan to subdue one of their captors to try to escape. One week earlier, in March 1998, the two missionaries are helping an elderly wheelchair-bound man down the stairs of an apartment building, due to the elevator being broken. They are approached by a man named Nikolai (Nikita Bogolyubov) who asks them to teach him and one of his friends. They enthusiastically agree, and Nikolai walks away. Tuttle and Propst then go to the top of a building where Propst celebrates having completed first full year on his mission. The two elders are shown teaching others before going to Nikolais apartment. Tuttle realizes he forgot a Book of Mormon to give to Nikolai, but he decides to go and try to teach him anyway. Propst is against this, but he nevertheless tags along. The two arrive at supposedly Nikolais apartment room. When Nikolai lets them in, Nikolai and another man start beating them. After the two elders are subdued, the other man, Sergei (Alex Veadov) ties both Tuttle and Propst up. Tuttle is frightened and emotional and tries to convince Sergei to release them, but Sergei gags the elders and he and Nikolai take them to their car and drive to a secret hideout. Propst tries to calm a traumatized Tuttle while in the back of the car. The two are photographed while blindfolded with Sergei holding a gun to their head so they can send it to the U.S. to demand a ransom. After Tuttle and Propst are handcuffed to poles in the room, their parents are notified by the church of their kidnapping. U.S. government officials refuse to pay Sergeis demanded ransom of $300,000 US. Propsts father receives a call from Senator Gordon H. Smith, who informs him that although he isnt working with the FBI or any other agency, he "is doing everything he can", frustrating Propsts father. On the second day of their captivity, Propst wakes to Tuttle reciting sentences that usually are for teaching investigators. When Propst questions him about this, he replies that he plans on teaching someone everyday. Sergei is gone during the daytimes, but Nikolai remains in the house, usually watching television. He is more compassionate around the elders, even being convinced by Propst to let them be moved to the bed in the room. Afterwards, Tuttle confesses to Propst that he didnt always want to go on his mission, that he only went to make his father happy. Tuttle then says that in the end, it made him happy too. Propst becomes emotional and is glad Tuttle told him. Sergei returns and starts yelling at Nikolai for moving the elders and then tells the two that he is not a patient man, and is frustrated the ransom wasnt paid. Tuttle then explains to Propst that the ransom cannot be paid, or else other criminals will start kidnapping many other missionaries for easy money. On the third day, Tuttle has a nightmare and is traumatized again. Nikolai feeds the two elders his leftover food and is asked by Propst about the tattoo that Sergei has on his hand. Nikolai reveals Sergei used to be a Russian Navy hero many years earlier. Tuttle begins having flashbacks of earlier times he and Propst taught others. In the U.S., the news of the kidnappings have spread throughout the country and the world, and the church and many other religions start praying for and honoring the two hostages. The Tuttles receive a call from an LDS man from Denver, who reveals he was also kidnapped as a missionary in Argentina. He explains that over the course of time, the elders will have more hope and faith and start to show compassion for their own captors. Sergei returns more frustrated than before, and tells the two elders to write their goodbyes. The Propst family receives a letter from the elders stating that they should not pay the ransom. The families are conflicted on whether to pay or not. On the fourth day, Propst has managed to unlock their handcuffs without Nikolai knowing. Tuttle and Propst begin debating on what to do now that they are free. Propst proposes they pray, and the film returns to its starting point where Tuttle looks up. The two prepare to execute their plan but before Propst calls for Nikolai, he receives visions of him and Tuttle teaching others and the man who called his familys words. He then tells Tuttle that they shouldnt try to fight their way out of captivity, and that God has already prepared a plan for them. The two elders put back together their cuffs and remain in the room. Sergei returns and tells the elders that their time is up. On the fifth day, which falls on a Sunday, Sergei prepares to take Tuttle and Propst out of the building. Before doing so, Nikolai consults with the elders. He confesses his guilt for kidnapping them and that the only reason he helped Sergei do it was because his girlfriend is having a baby, and Nikolai cant afford to provide for his family. Sergei blindfolds the two elders, who are calm no matter what the outcome will be. He drives them to a desolate and snowy field, where he prepares to kill them. Nikolai remains in the car, overwhelmed with guilt and sorrow. Before Sergei can shoot the elders, however, he notices a drawing on Propsts hand similar to his tattoo, making Sergei guilty. He deserts the elders with Nikolai, relieved that they werent killed. The two then escape and manage to catch a ride to Saratov, overjoyed for their freedom. They arrive in Saratov in the middle of a church meeting, and have emotional reunions with their fellow members. Their families are contacted that they have been freed, and that Nikolai and Sergei have been captured by Russian officials. Propst and Tuttle speak over the phone to their families, and then walk out of their church building at the end of the meeting.</ref> For five days, the two missionaries were handcuffed and held captive in a small room. When no ransom was paid, the two young men were driven to a field and released.
The Saratov Approach
2013