On June 13, at a top-secret government laboratory in rural California, a weaponized version of influenza is accidentally released. A guard escapes the lab and begins traveling across the country to his family home in East Texas, unintentionally spreading the virus along the way. On June 17th, he crashes his car into a gas station in the town of Arnette, where Stu Redman (Gary Sinise) and some friends have gathered. As the man lays dying, he warns Redman that he had been pursued by a "Dark Man.” The next day, the U.S. military arrives to quarantine the town. The townspeople are taken to a CDC facility in Vermont. All but Stu succumb to the superflu, which kills 99.4% of the worlds population in two weeks. The scattered survivors include would-be rock star Larry Underwood (Adam Storke); deaf mute Nick Andros (Rob Lowe); Frannie Goldsmith (Molly Ringwald and her unborn child from Jesse, her boyfriend prior to the plague.); her teenaged neighbor Harold Lauder (Corin Nemec); imprisoned criminal Lloyd Henreid (Miguel Ferrer); and "Trashcan Man" (Matt Frewer), a mentally ill arsonist and scavenger. The survivors soon begin having visions, either from kindly Mother Abagail (Ruby Dee) or from the demonic Randall Flagg (Jamey Sheridan). The two sets of survivors are instructed in dreams to either travel to Nebraska to meet Abagail, or to Las Vegas to join Flagg. As their journeys begin, Lloyd is freed from prison by Flagg in exchange for becoming his second in command. Trashcan Man, a pyromaniac, destroys fuel tanks across the Midwest and is directed to Las Vegas. Larry escapes New York City with a mysterious woman named Nadine Cross (Laura San Giacomo). Despite their mutual attraction, Nadine is unable to consummate a relationship with Larry because of her visions of Flagg, who commands her to join him; she leaves Larry to travel on her own. After escaping the CDC facility, Stu gathers a group of survivors, including Frannie, Harold, and Glen Bateman (Ray Walston). They are later joined by various other immune survivors. As the group travels toward Nebraska, Harold is consumed with jealousy over Stus leadership of the group and his growing relationship with Frannie, on whom Harold has an unrequited crush. Meanwhile, Nick makes his way across the Midwest, eventually meeting Tom Cullen (Bill Fagerbakke), a mentally challenged man. The two men encounter Julie Lawry (Shawnee Smith), a vicious girl who vows to kill them when they refuse to let her join them. Eventually Nicks group reaches Abagails farm in Hemingford Home, Nebraska. She warns that a great conflict is imminent and they must all travel on to Boulder, Colorado. There, the survivors form a new community called the Boulder Free Zone, where they begin restoring civilization. Flagg sets up an autocratic regime in Las Vegas, with the intent of defeating the Boulder survivors using salvaged nuclear weapons. Frannie feels increasing anxiety because she is unsure whether her baby will be immune to the superflu. Harolds resentment towards Stu and Frannie intensifies, causing him to be seduced by Nadine and join forces with Flagg. Abagail, convinced that she has fallen into the sin of pride, leaves Boulder to walk in the wilderness. Three Boulder survivors are chosen to infiltrate Las Vegas: Tom, Dayna Jurgens (Kellie Overbey), and Judge Farris (Ossie Davis). They hypnotize Tom to follow a set of instructions, including that he leave Las Vegas at the next full moon. Harold and Nadine plant a bomb in Frannie and Stus home, planning to set it off during a meeting of the Free Zone council. A weakened Abagail returns to town and gives a psychic warning to the council members at the meeting. The warning allows most of the council to escape the explosion, but Nick is killed. Before she passes away, Abagail tells Stu, Larry, Glen, Frannie and fellow council member Ralph Brentner that they must travel to Las Vegas to confront Flagg. When Nadine and Harold flee, Flagg causes Harold to be seriously injured in a motorcycle accident. Nadine leaves him with broken legs. He kills himself with a gun the next day. Flagg calls Nadine to him. She tries to escape and tells him no when he wants to consummate their relationship. Flagg tells her it is too late to say no and forces himself on her. Nadine is unresponsive following the attack by Flagg. Upon returning to Las Vegas, an increasingly unstable Flagg finds Dayna, who kills herself rather than give up information. He intercepts Farris, who is accidentally killed before he can be tortured. Tom leaves Las Vegas when the moon is full, but Julie recognizes him; she tries to alert Flagg, but Tom escapes into the desert and hides from Flagg and his men. Shortly afterwards, a crazed Nadine taunts Flagg and commits suicide with the unholy fetus he conceived in her. With winter fast approaching, Stu, Larry, Glen, and Ralph leave Boulder to set out on their quest. Stu breaks his leg and must stay behind. The remaining three are captured by Flaggs forces. Glen is separated from Larry and Ralph. Flagg orders Lloyd to kill Glen after he taunts Flagg. As Larry and Ralph endure a show trial on Fremont Street, Trashcan Man arrives with a stolen nuclear weapon. Flagg is unable to stop a spectral hand from detonating the bomb as the voice of Abagail declares that Gods promise has been kept. Las Vegas is destroyed and Flagg is apparently killed. Stu is rescued by Tom, who takes him to a nearby cabin to heal his leg as winter sets in. They eventually return to Boulder in the midst of a blinding snow storm. Frannie gives birth to a baby which is determined to have the superflu, but the infant survives. Assured that the immune survivors can safely reproduce, the inhabitants of Boulder set to work rebuilding the world.
The Stand (TV miniseries)
1994