Harry (Anthony Cardoza) and Beth (Kevin Casey) Rowe run a small skydiving facility in an unnamed desert town. One day, a woman named Suzy Belmont (Marcia Knight) comes around claiming to be looking for the Rowes plane mechanic Frankie Bonner (Titus Moede). Beth claims that Frankie was fired for being drunk on the job, but feels that Suzy didnt come down just to see Frankie. As she walks away, Beth cant help but feel that her husband is having an affair with this floozy. It turns out that Harry is, but is still keeping it a secret from his wife. One evening, they receive a letter from Harrys friend, Joe Moss (Eric Tomlin). Joe wants to visit and is looking for a job. Beth comments that Joe could easily fill Frankies position and Harry consents. Soon after, Frankie returns to the skydiving school, but Harry catches him trying to sabotage a plane and accosts him. Frankie demands Harry to stay away from Suzy. Harry agrees but warns that hell break both of Frankies legs if he ever returns to the facility. Joe Moss eventually arrives and Harry and Beth greet him warmly. Joe is just in time to witness an eager young man, Pete (Paul Francis), propose to do a dangerous skydiving stunt. Harry warns that the FAA could come down on them for that, but Pete is determined to prove he can do it. He starts out fine, but before he can pull his chute he panics and plummets to the ground. The FAA do get involved; they shut down the Rowes skydiving facility. Harry drives into town and has a beer at a local bar. He finds Suzy outside and fights off her advances before leaving her in the parking lot fuming. Incensed at Harry, Suzy plots revenge by convincing love-struck Frankie to help her put acid in Harrys parachute. An unsure Frankie gingerly agrees. Eventually the facility reopens, and numerous people come out to see the skydivers. Trouble brews when Harry thinks Beth and Joe are having an affair; Harry even confronts Joe. Harry and Beth soon make up and Joe backs off. They plan a night jump and a pre-jump party. During the party Suzy and Frankie sneak into the hangar and pour acid on Harrys parachute. The party is lively, but the evening ends in tragedy when Harrys chute rips and he plummets to the ground to his death. Witness report seeing Suzy and Frankie running away from the preparations room. Joe gets into his car and soon catches up to them. However, some men from the FAA give chase in a plane and in a car. In spite of the lack of any direct evidence that they were responsible, and no legal proceedings, the two are immediately gunned down without warning by the authorities as they drive away from the facility. In the aftermath, Joe takes his leave of Beth, who is giving up running the skydiving facility. As Joe drives away, Beth takes her own leave of the facility. The curiously grim end credits feature names and head shots of the actors set to total silence.
The Skydivers
1963