On May 19, 1927, after waiting for a week for the rain to stop on Long Island, New York, pilot Charles A. "Slim" Lindbergh (James Stewart) tries to sleep in a hotel near Roosevelt Field, before his transatlantic flight from New York to Paris. His friend Frank Mahoney (Bartlett Robinson) guards his hotel room door from reporters. Unable to sleep, Lindbergh reminisces about his time as an airmail pilot. Flying to Chicago in winter, "Slim" lands his old de Havilland biplane at a small airfield to refuel. Despite bad weather, he takes off, unaware that heavy snow has closed the Chicago landing field. Lindbergh bails out in a storm after running out of fuel. Recovering mail from his crashed DH-4, he continues to Chicago by train. A salesman tells him two airmen just died competing for the Orteig Prize for the first nonstop flight from New York City to Paris.  Lindbergh calls Columbia Aircraft Corporation in New York from a small diner at the Lambert-St. Louis Flying Field. Quoted a price of $15,000 ($210,000 today) for a Bellanca high-wing monoplane, "Slim" lobbies St. Louis financiers with a plan to fly the Atlantic in 40 hours in a stripped-down, single-engine aircraft. The backers are excited by Lindberghs vision and dub the venture Spirit of St. Louis. When the Bellanca deal falls apart because Columbia insists on selecting the pilot, Lindbergh approaches Ryan Aeronautical Company, a small manufacturer in San Diego, California. Frank Mahoney, the companys owner and president, promises to build a suitable monoplane in just 90 days. With Ryans chief engineer Donald Hall (Arthur Space), a design takes shape. To decrease weight, "Slim" refuses to install a radio or other heavy equipment, even a parachute, and plans to navigate by "dead reckoning". . With no autopilot function Lindbergh cannot sleep during the flight. Workers at the factory agree to work around-the-clock to complete the monoplane in less than 90 days. Lindbergh flies The Spirit of St. Louis to New York stopping at Lambert Field on the way. He prepares for the flight at Roosevelt Field, Long Island, ensuring that 450 gallons of fuel is on board for the long flight. In the cramped cockpit, which does not allow direct forward view, the magnetic compass must fit above his head; a young woman (Patricia Smith) offers her compact mirror. "Slim" has the mirror stuck to the instrument panel with chewing gum, so he can read the compass. Furtively, Mahoney slips a Saint Christopher medal into a bag of sandwiches on board. As the weather clears, The Spirit trundles down the muddy runway and barely clears electric lines and treetops. An American newspapers headline reads: "Lindy Is Off!" Every hour, Lindbergh switches fuel tanks to keep the airplanes weight balanced. As Lindbergh flies over Cape Cod, he realizes he has not slept in 28 hours. He recalls past times when he slept on railroad tracks, short bunk beds, and under a windmill. When "Slim" begins to doze, he is awakened by a fly. Over Nova Scotia, he sees a motorcyclist below, remembering his own Harley Davidson motorcycle traded in as partial payment for his first aircraft, a World War I war-surplus Curtiss Jenny. Over the seemingly endless Atlantic, Lindbergh remembers barnstorming across the Midwest in a flying circus. After 18 hours, The Spirits wings and engine begin icing up and the aircraft begins losing altitude. The ice breaks off in warmer air and the engine is restarted. Back on course, his compasses begin malfunctioning, forcing him to navigate by the stars. By dawn, "Slim" falls asleep, and the monoplane slowly descends in a wide spiral toward the ocean. Sunlight reflecting off the compacts mirror finally awakens him in time to regain flight control. Seeing a seagull, Lindbergh realizes he is close to land. He tries without success to hail a fisherman below. Sighting land, he realizes he has reached Dingle Bay, Ireland. Pulling out a sandwich from the bag, "Slim" discovers the hidden Saint Christopher medal, and hangs it on the instrument panel. Crossing the English Channel and the coast of France, Lindbergh follows the Seine up to Paris as darkness falls. Finally seeing the city lights ahead of him, "Slim" approaches Le Bourget Airfield in the dark, becoming disoriented by panning spotlights aimed into the sky. He glimpses strange movements and lights below, in reality huge crowds of people and traffic in and around Le Bourget. Confused by this chaos, Lindbergh begins his landing approach, quickly becoming panicked. As he goes lower, he whispers "Oh, God, help me!" Landing safely and bringing The Spirit to a full stop, hordes of people rush his aircraft. As flash powder ignites and photos are taken, Lindbergh is carried triumphantly on peoples shoulders toward a hangar. Exhausted from no sleep, "Slim" eventually realizes the crowds, numbering 200,000, are cheering for him and his achievement. On returning to New York City, Lindbergh, having now become a national hero, is given a huge ticker tape parade, with four million people lining the parade route.
The Spirit of St. Louis (film)
1957