King Philip II of Spain (Montagu Love) declares his intention to destroy England, the first step to world conquest. He sends  Don Álvarez (Claude Rains) as his ambassador to allay the suspicions of Queen Elizabeth I (Flora Robson) about the great armada he is building to invade England. In England, some of the Queens ministers plead with her to build a fleet, which she hesitates to do in order to spare the purses of her subjects. The ambassadors ship is captured en route to England by the Albatross and her captain, Geoffrey Thorpe (Errol Flynn). Don Álvarez and his niece, Doña María (Brenda Marshall), are taken aboard and transported to England. Thorpe is immediately enchanted by Doña María and gallantly returns her plundered jewels. Her detestation of him softens as she too begins to fall in love. Don Álvarez is granted an audience with the Queen and complains about his treatment; Doña María is accepted as one of her maids of honour. The "Sea Hawks", a group of English privateers who loot Spanish ships for "reparations" appear before the Queen, who scolds them (at least publicly) for their piratical attacks and for endangering the peace with Spain. Captain Thorpe proposes in private a plan to seize a large caravan of Spanish gold in the New World and bring it back to England. The Queen is wary of Spains reaction, but allows Thorpe to proceed. Suspicious, Lord Wolfingham (Henry Daniell), one of the Queens ministers and a secret Spanish collaborator, sends a spy to try to discover where the Albatross is really heading. Upon visiting the chartmaker responsible for drawing the charts for Thorpes next voyage, Don Álvarez and Lord Wolfingham determine that he is sailing to the Isthmus of Panama and order Don Álvarezs Spanish captain to sail ahead to set up an ambush. When the Albatross reaches its destination, the ship is spotted by a native who reports it to the Spanish governor. Thorpes crew seizes the caravan, but fall into a well-laid trap and are driven into the swamps. Thorpe and a few other survivors return to their ship, only to find it in Spanish hands.  They are taken to Spain, tried by the Inquisition, and sentenced to life imprisonment as galley slaves. In England, Don Álvarez informs the Queen of Thorpes fate, causing his niece to faint. The Queen and Don Álvarez exchange heated words, and she expels him from her court. On a Spanish galley, Thorpe meets an Englishman named Abbott, who was captured trying to uncover evidence of the Armadas true purpose. Through cunning, the prisoners take over the ship during the night. They board another ship in the harbor, where an emissary has stored secret incriminating plans. Thorpe and his men capture both and sail back to England with the plans. Upon reaching port, Thorpe tries to warn the Queen. A carriage bringing Don Álvarez to the ship which, unknown to him, Thorpe has captured, also brings his niece. Don Álvarez boards the ship and is held prisoner, while Captain Thorpe, dressed in the uniform of a Spanish courtier, sneaks into the carriage carrying Doña María, who has decided to stay in England and wait for Thorpes return. The two finally declare their love for each other, and María helps Thorpe to sneak into the palace. However, Lord Wolfinghams spy spots Thorpe and alerts the castle guards to stop the carriage and take Thorpe prisoner. Thorpe escapes and enters the Queens residence, fending off guards all the while. Eventually, Thorpe runs into Lord Wolfingham and kills the traitor in a swordfight. With Doña Marías assistance, Thorpe reaches the Queen and provides proof of King Philips intentions. Elizabeth knights Thorpe and declares her intention to build a great fleet to oppose the Spanish threat.
The Sea Hawk (1940 film)
1940