Bella Swan is preparing for her wedding. During the reception, Jacob Black returns after hearing about Bella and Edward Cullens engagement. While dancing with him in the woods, away from everyone else, Bella admits that she and Edward plan to consummate their marriage on their honeymoon while shes still human. Jacob becomes furious, knowing that Edward could endanger Bella. Sam and the others restrain Jacob before he phases. After the wedding, the couple spends their honeymoon on Isle Esme, and they make love for the first time. The next morning, Edward realizes that Bella has numerous bruises, and is upset at himself for hurting her, though Bella insists that she enjoyed the experience. Edward swears not to make love again until she becomes a vampire. Two weeks after their honeymoon, Bella realizes that she is pregnant with a half-mortal, half-immortal child. Edward is terrified by the news, speculating that she may not survive the pregnancy. He says that Carlisle will remove the baby. She refuses, as she wants to keep the baby, and convinces Edwards sister, Rosalie, who has always wanted a child, to act as her bodyguard. They fly back home to Forks, Washington. Bella has only been pregnant for two weeks, but the baby is growing very fast. Jacob rushes over to the Cullens house and finds Bella already heavily pregnant. He becomes upset, saying that they should abort it as soon as possible. Bella says that it is her choice. As her pregnancy progresses, the quality of her health declines, then rapidly improves as she starts drinking human blood to satisfy the babys vampiric thirst for blood. Edward comes to love the baby as much as Bella does as he reads its thoughts, learning that his child loves Bella in return, and doesnt want to hurt her. After Bella chooses baby names, she drops a cup of blood, and as she bends down to pick it up, she collapses, and her backbone breaks. She undergoes a cesarean section, and her daughter, Renesmee is born. To save her life, Edward injects Bellas heart with his venom to transform her into a vampire, but nothing happens, so he bites her neck and arms and legs. Bella is presumed to have died in childbirth. Distraught, Jacob attempts to kill their baby, but when they look into each others eyes, he imprints on her instead. When the werewolves learn of Bellas "death", they attack the Cullens house in an attempt to kill the baby as they fear it would become a threat. Edward, Alice, and Jasper, defend their home with the help of Leah and Seth, and are later assisted by Carlisle, Esme, and Emmett. Jacob then runs outside to stop the fight and phases into his wolf form. Jacob and Sam shortly communicate with each other telepathically. Edward reads Jacobs mind, announcing that Jacob has imprinted on Renesmee, and since its the wolves most absolute law not to harm anyone who has been imprinted on, they are forced to leave. After Bella is cleaned and dressed, Edwards venom heals her body, and two days later, she regains consciousness as a vampire. In a post-credits scene, Aro and his brothers, Marcus and Caius, receive a letter from Carlisle.
The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn - Part 1
2012