On January 5, 1900, four friends arrive for a dinner at the London home of their inventor friend George, but he is not there. Suddenly, he arrives, bedraggled and exhausted, and begins to describe the strange experiences he has had since the group last met. At their earlier dinner on New Years Eve, George described time as "the fourth dimension" to David Filby, Dr. Philip Hillyer, Anthony Bridewell, and Walter Kemp. He shows them a small model time machine and asks a guest to press a tiny lever. The device disappears, validating his claim, but his friends remain unconvinced; their reactions vary from curiosity to frank dismissal. George bids his guests a good evening, then heads downstairs where his full-size time machine awaits. He presses a lever and moves forward through time 17 years into the future to 1917. He meets Filbys son, James, who tells him of Filbys death in a War. Saddened, he resumes his journey, stopping in 1940 during The Blitz, finding himself in the midst of "a new war"; George resumes his journey and stops in 1966, finding his neighborhood now part of a futuristic metropolis. People are hurrying into a nearby fallout shelter amid the blare of air raid sirens. An elderly James Filby urges George to immediately take cover. Moments later, a nuclear explosion causes a volcanic eruption around him. George narrowly makes it back to his machine and continues his journey forward as the lava rapidly cools and hardens, trapping him inside. He travels much farther into the future until the rock eventually erodes away, revealing a lush, green, unspoiled landscape. When George stops once again it is 802,701 and he is near the base of a towering sphinx. He goes exploring and finds a group of delicate young men and women with simple clothing gathered at a stream. One woman, carried off by the current, screams for help but none of her companions show any concern. George rescues her and is surprised when, revived, she walks away without a word; she later seeks him out and gives him a flower. She says her name is Weena and tells George her people are called the Eloi. The Eloi do not operate machines, work, or read, and know little of mankinds history. That night, George discovers that his machine has been taken into the sphinx. Weena follows, telling him "Morlocks", who only come out at night, have moved it. A Morlock jumps out from behind bushes and tries to drag her away, but its light-sensitive eyes are blinded by Georges fire torch. Weena has never seen fire before and nearly burns herself trying to touch the flame. The next day, Weena shows George domed, well-like structures that dot the landscape: air shafts that double as access to the Morlock underworld. She takes him to an ancient museum where "talking rings" tell of a war in the distant past which lasted 326 years. A reduced population fought for survival in the poisoned landscape; many decided to live underground in permanent settlements, while some returned to the surface. George realizes this was the beginning of speciation for the Morlocks and the Eloi. He starts to climb down a shaft, but stops when sirens blare from atop the sphinx. He finds Weena gone and crowds of Eloi in a trance-like state, entering open doors at its base. The sirens stop and the doors close. George enters the Morlocks subterranean caverns and is horrified to see that the Eloi are the free range livestock for the Morlocks; the Morlocks are cannibals. Finding Weena, he begins fighting the Morlocks. His efforts inspire others to defend themselves. George sets fires and urges the Eloi to climb to the surface with him. He directs them to gather dry tree branches and drop them down the shafts. The fires intensity increases and the subterranean cavern collapses. The next morning, George finds the sphinx in charred ruins and its doors open. His time machine is inside. He enters, the doors close, and George is attacked in the dark by Morlocks. George activates his time machine, traveling back to 1900, coming to rest on the lawn outside his home, where the story had begun, and now ends. As the bedraggled George recounts his story, his friends are again skeptical. He produces Weenas flower and Filby, an amateur botanist, says that he cannot match it with any species known in the 19th century. George bids his guests a good evening. Filby steps out but returns to find George and his time machine now gone. There are drag marks which indicate that George wanted the time machine to be positioned outside the sphinx when he returned to the future. The housekeeper notes that nothing is missing except three books that she could not identify. When the housekeeper wonders if George will ever return, Filby observes that he could not say but that "he (George) has all the time in the world".
The Time Machine (1960 film)
1960