Mill worker and political activist Leopold Dilg (Cary Grant) is accused of burning down a mill and causing the death of a foreman in the fire. In the middle of his trial, Dilg escapes from jail and seeks shelter in a house owned by former schoolmate Nora Shelley (Jean Arthur), now a schoolteacher on whom he has had a crush for years. Shelley has the house rented for the summer to distinguished law professor Michael Lightcap (Ronald Colman), who plans to write a book. Both Lightcap and Dilg arrive within minutes of each other. When Dilg is spotted by Lightcap, Shelley passes him off as her gardener. Lightcap and Dilg enjoy having spirited discussions about the law, Lightcap arguing from an academic viewpoint, while Dilg subscribes to a more practical approach. They become good friends as a result, but meanwhile, they become romantic rivals, as Lightcap also falls in love with Nora. As a result of prodding by Shelley and Dilgs lawyer, Lightcap becomes suspicious and starts, in spite of his initial reluctance, to investigate the case against Dilg further. He romances the girlfriend of the supposed murder victim and discovers that the former foreman is still alive and hiding in Boston. Shelley, Lightcap and Dilg go to Boston and find him, bring him back to Lochester and force him to admit his guilt and that of the mill owner. While the three argue about whether to call the police, the foreman catches them unawares and escapes. Dilg is held for trial while the towns anger at him is stoked into a riotous mob. Lightcap takes a gun from the cottage and seeks out the foreman, hiding in Bushs closet, forcing him to go to the courthouse just as the mob breaks in to lynch Dilg. Firing the revolver to draw attention, Lightcap announces that the supposedly dead foreman is now present. He then gives an impassioned speech to the mob about the importance of the law, both in principle and in practice. In due course, the foreman and owner of the mill are convicted and Dilg is set free. Soon afterward, Lightcap is appointed to the Supreme Court. Shelley visits him in his chambers and he tells her that his dream of 20 years has been realized. With more happiness than a man could want, he says the only thing left is to see his friends likewise happy, and suggests that Shelley should marry Dilg. While both Dilg and Shelley are attending court at the first seating of Lightcap as an Associate Justice, Dilg interprets an affectionate look shared between Lightcap and Shelley as a sign that she has chosen to marry Lightcap. Dilg leaves the courtroom abruptly. When Shelley follows after Dilg, he brushes her off with increasing frustration. Shelley finally kisses him passionately whereupon, realizing that she has actually chosen him, Dilg takes Shelley by the hand to return to their home town together.
The Talk of the Town (1942 film)
1942