DArtagnan (Gene Kelly), an inexperienced Gascon youth, travels to Paris to join the elite Kings Musketeers. On his way, he encounters a mysterious lady at a roadside inn. When he picks a fight with one of her escorts, she becomes suspicious and has him knocked unconscious. His letter of introduction from his father to de Treville (Reginald Owen), the commander of the Musketeers, is burned. When he awakens, he continues on to the city. In Paris, he nevertheless presents himself to de Treville, who recognizes dArtagnans description of one of his assailants and, saying "A man is sometimes known by the enemies he makes," makes him a cadet. The young Gascon spots the very man and in his haste to confront him, annoys three of the most skillful Musketeers: Athos (Van Heflin), Porthos (Gig Young) and Aramis (Robert Coote). Each challenges him to a duel. At the appointed place, upon learning they are all there to duel the same man the master swordsmen are amused by the newcomers audacity. Before they can begin, however, they are interrupted by Richelieus guards, who try to arrest the Musketeers. Outraged that the three are outnumbered, dArtagnan joins them in dispatching their foes, displaying his superb swordsmanship in the process. As a result, he is welcomed into their ranks. Later, dArtagnan rescues (and falls in love with) Constance Bonacieux (June Allyson), a confidante of Queen Anne (Angela Lansbury). The queen had been given a matched set of twelve diamond studs by her husband, King Louis XIII (Frank Morgan). Foolishly, she gives them to her lover, the Duke of Buckingham (John Sutton), who is also the Prime Minister of Great Britain. Knowing of the queens indiscretion, Richelieu (Vincent Price) sees a way to persuade the King to go to war with Britain. Richelieu arranges a ball and suggests to Louis that he have the Queen wear the diamonds. DArtagnan and his three friends volunteer to travel to Britain to retrieve the jewels, but along the way, they are ambushed by Richelieus men. One by one, the Musketeers are forced to stay behind to hold off their pursuers. Finally, only dArtagnan and his servant Planchet (Keenan Wynn) are left to reach the Duke. However, Richelieu had already sent the beautiful Milady, Countess de Winter (Lana Turner) to work her wiles on His Grace and steal two of the studs. Fortunately, the Dukes jeweler is able to make replacements quickly and dArtagnan races back to France. He arrives just in time to save the Queen from disgrace. Admiring dArtagnans resourcefulness, Richelieu has Constance abducted in an attempt to enlist him in his service. He also assigns de Winter to help persuade the young man. DArtagnan tries to learn where Constance is being held from Milady, but begins to fall under her spell instead. When Athos discovers that the Countess de Winter is actually his treacherous wife, he tries to warn dArtagnan, but is not believed. Then dArtagnan finds out that Athos was telling the truth: He sees a brand on Miladys shoulder, the mark of a common criminal, just where Athos had told him he would. Fighting breaks out between Britain and France. The Queen succeeds in freeing Constance and sends her to Buckingham for safety. When the war goes against him, Richelieu gives de Winter a carte blanche and sends her to Britain to assassinate his foe. The Musketeers learn of the plot and send Planchet to warn the Duke. Athos confronts Milady and recovers the carte blanche as proof of Richelieus treachery. De Winter is imprisoned by the Duke and placed in the custody of Constance, but when the latter lets her guard down de Winter kills first her, then Buckingham. Athos and dArtagnan arrive too late to save them. DArtagnan and Athos return to France with a self-imposed mission: find the Countess de Winter and give her justice for the murders of the Duke of Buckingham and Constance. They lose track of her on the road to Lille and return to Paris. Captain de Treville informs them that de Winter has not been seen in the city, and warns the Musketeers that she is under Richelieus protection; if they continue their vendetta, if they are not killed they will have to flee to Spain as wanted men. They elect to proceed after Aramis recalls a conversation between Milady and Richelieu concerning the granting of a title and an estate near Lille. Caught once again by the Musketeers at that estate, the ancestral home of Athos, she begs for mercy but finds none, even though her husband still loves her despite her many crimes. Seeing this, she calms herself and walks with dignity to her execution. The Musketeers are ambushed by Richelieus men, captured, and returned to the Royal Court for judgment. As Richelieu is about to have them sentenced to death by the king, dArtagnan produces the carte blanche. Richelieu is compelled to recommend to King Louis that he grant Aramiss wish to enter a monastery; Porthos, an introduction to a rich widow; Athos, the restoration of his title and lands; and dArtagnan, a commission as a Musketeer and a mission to England, for "the English lead too dull a life." The four, dismissed by the King, stride from the throne room in triumph.
The Three Musketeers (1948 film)
1948