Callow youth dArtagnan (Walter Abel) sets off from Gascony for Paris, armed with his fathers sword, an old horse and a letter of introduction to his godfather, Captain de Treville (Lumsden Hare), commander of the Kings Musketeers. Along the way, he attempts to rescue Milady de Winter (Margot Grahame) from highwaymen, but it turns out she came to meet their leader, the Count de Rochefort (Ian Keith). When Rochefort insults dArtagnan, the latter insists on a duel. Instead, Rochefort has his men knock out dArtagnan, while he blackmails Lady de Winter into helping him in his plot to seize power. Upon reaching Paris, dArtagnan is dismayed to learn from de Treville that he must serve two years as a cadet or perform "extraordinary deeds of valor" before he can become a Musketeer. Then he spots Rochefort on the street. In his haste to confront his enemy, dArtagnan unintentionally insults three Musketeers: Athos (Paul Lukas), Porthos (Moroni Olsen), and Aramis (Onslow Stevens) in turn, agreeing each time to a duel. When his opponents arrive at the appointed place, they are amused to discover they are all engaged to cross swords with the same man. However, Cardinal Richelieus Guards try to arrest the Musketeers for dueling. DArtagnan joins the outnumbered trio and acquits himself well. His three new friends secure him free lodging by threatening landlord Bernajou (Murray Kinnell) with an imaginary law and find him a servant named Planchet (John Qualen). That night, dArtagnan is pleasantly surprised when Bernajous ward Constance (Heather Angel) enters the room. It turns out that it is actually her chamber, though she is rarely there, as she spends most of her time at the palace as lady-in-waiting to the Queen. Constance has arranged a rendezvous between Queen Anne (Rosamond Pinchot) and her lover, the English Duke of Buckingham (Ralph Forbes). Buckingham threatens to wage war to obtain Anne, but she dissuades him by appealing to his love; she gives him her diamonds as a pledge for peace. Bernajou, lusting for Constance and suspicious of her meeting a lover, has hidden in an armoire and witnesses their meeting. He is arrested and reveals the details to Rochefort, who is in league with Richelieu to bring about the Queens downfall and thus thwart Buckingham. Rochefort lies to Richelieu that the Queen gave her diamonds to start a war between France and England, and they arrange it so that she must appear wearing the diamonds at the Kings anniversary ball eight days hence.  When dArtagnan finds out from Constance the Queens danger, he decides to ride to England and retrieve the jewelry. De Treville assigns him help: Athos, Porthos, and Aramis. Alerted by Bernajou, Rochefort sends his men to attack them along the way. One by one, the others remain behind to hold off their enemies, and only dArtagnan reaches Calais, where he discovers that Lady de Winter has killed Buckinghams valet and stolen the diamonds. She is not fooled by his attempt to gain her confidence and has her men tie him up and throw him in her carriage. She stops at an inn on her journey back to Paris; by chance it is where the Musketeers had agreed to rendezvous. They free dArtagnan and take Lady de Winter prisoner, after which Athos reveals that the murderess is his wife. At Athoss ancestral home, where Constance is waiting, Lady de Winter throws herself into the river. At the ball, dArtagnan unmasks Rochefort as a traitor, producing a secret treaty taken from Lady de Winter and offered by Rochefort to Buckingham in which the King and Richelieu would be assassinated. Hearing that dArtagnan is just a cadet, the King immediately makes him a Musketeer.
The Three Musketeers (1935 film)
1935