In October 1976, 28-year-old Randall Adams and his brother left Ohio for California. En route, they arrived in Dallas on Thanksgiving night. The next morning, Adams was offered a job. On the following Saturday, Adams went to start work but no one turned up because it was a weekend. On the way home, his car ran out of fuel. David Ray Harris (1960-2004), who had just turned sixteen, drove in a car he had stolen from his neighbor in Vidor, Texas before driving to Dallas armed with his fathers pistol and a shotgun. Along the way, Harris encountered Adams walking with gasoline canister in hand and offered him a lift. The two spent most of the following day together during which time they consumed alcohol and marijuana. That evening they went to a drive-in movie. Robert Wood, a Dallas police officer, was working the graveyard shift with his partner, Teresa Turko, one of the first female police officers in Dallas that was ever assigned to patrol duty. Shortly after midnight, Officer Wood stopped the stolen car occupied by Harris, in the 3400 block of North Hampton Road because, as officially recorded, its headlights were not on. As Wood approached the vehicle on the drivers side, he was shot twice by the occupant - whom the female officer later testified in court as not having seen, as she was (also according to her testimony) standing directly behind the stolen vehicle when the shots were fired. The female officer further testified that the vehicle sped off almost immediately after the shooting, giving her little time to react; according to her testimony she managed to fire upon the fleeing vehicle but to no avail. Officer Woods autopsy revealed the first shot had hit him in the forearm, after passing through his flashlight. The next shot hit Wood in the chest. The Dallas Police Department investigation eventually led back to Harris, who after returning to Vidor, had boasted to friends that he was responsible for the shooting. When interviewed by police, Harris accused Adams of the murder. Harris led police to the car driven from the scene of the crime, as well as to a .22 Short caliber revolver he identified as the murder weapon. The film presents a series of interviews about the investigation and reenactments of the shooting, based on the testimony and recollections of Adams, Harris, the judge presiding over the case (Donald J. Metcalfe), and several witnesses (including Emily Miller and R. L. Miller), as well as detectives (including Gus Rose, Jackie Johnson, and Marshall Touchton). Two attorneys (Edith James and Dennis White) who represented Adams at the trial where he was convicted also appear: they suggested that Adams was charged with the crime despite the evidence against Harris because he was a juvenile at the time and that Adams, as an adult, could be sentenced to death under Texas law. The prosecutor (Douglas D. Mulder) does not appear in the film. The films title comes from prosecutor Doug Mulders comment during his closing argument that the police are the "thin blue line" separating society from "anarchy". This is a re-working of a line from Rudyard Kiplings poem "Tommy" in which he describes British soldiers (nicknamed "Tommy Atkins") as the "thin red line", from the color of their uniforms and their formation.
The Thin Blue Line (1988 film)
1988