Calamity ensues at the beach villa in Malibu, California, where Cole Kings theatre ensemble resides, when one of the showgirls, Adelaide, is challenging Marcia, who is Coles girl and the star of the show. Marcia retaliates by threatening to reveal Adelaides secret marriage to a doctor by the name of George Brandt. She also steals a letter to Adelaide from said Brandt, using one of the other showgirls, Lois, who is hiding the fact that she is under eighteen. When Marcia vanishes and Lois dead body is found by one of the other members of the group, San Toy. The cause of death is strangulation, and the technique used is used by the French and the Chinese. Immediately, the French Adelaide and Chinese San Toy are placed under suspicion as possible perpetrators. Also living under the same roof are the groups press agent Rick Daniels and costume chief Mrs. Thorn. Daniels suggests they make Lois death look like drowning, but San Toy contacts her friend Jimmy, who is the son of reputed sleuth Charlie Chan, asking for help to solve the murder mystery. Chan starts his investigation, and soon both his assistant, Birmingham, and San Toy are attacked, but without a mortal ending. Another member of the theatre group, Clementine, discovers Marcia dead and strangled on the beach, with a silk cord still around her neck. Daniels tries to get rid of Marcias robe, and is seen by Chan, who concludes it was the belt from the robe that was found around Marcias neck. Daniels claims he is innocent and that someone put the robe in Kings room to frame him for the murder. King starts to believe Daniels is the killer trying to get rid of the evidence. Chan finds out that doctor Brandt was previously accused of murdering his ex-wife but was cleared from suspicion. However, it destroyed his future career as a physician. He changed his identity, enlisted and went to Europe, where he met Adelaide and they married. Chan talks to Dr. Brandt, who admits to finding his wife Lois body, but not to killing her. To catch the real killer Chan decides to set a trap. Everything works as planned, and the killer tries to strangle San Toy that night, but Chans son Jimmy comes to Sans rescue and accidentally destroys foils the trap. Chan, Birmingham and Jimmy then chase the killer, and it turns out it is Mrs. Thorn, who was previously married to King. She left him and wasnt allowed back after that, but had to serve as head of costumes. She killed the women because they were involved with her former husband, out of jealousy and to hurt King. Brandt is cleared of all suspicion, and Chan promises to get his license back by talking to the Board of Medical Examiners.
The Trap (1946 film)
1946