Truman Burbank is the unsuspecting star of The Truman Show, a reality television program which is broadcast live around the clock and across the globe. His entire life has taken place within a giant arcological dome in Hollywood, fashioned to create the seaside town of Seahaven Island, and equipped with thousands of cameras to monitor all aspects of his life. The producers discouraged Truman from wanting to leave Seahaven by instilling him with aquaphobia through the "death" of his TV father in a boating "accident", and by constantly broadcasting and printing messages of the dangers of traveling. All of Seahavens residents are actors, either acting out a script or repeating lines fed to them by the shows creator and executive producer, Christof. Christof seeks to capture Trumans real emotion and human behavior and give audiences a relatable everyman. Despite Christofs control, Truman manages to act in unexpected ways. During his college years, Truman was intended to fall in love with and marry co-student Meryl, but he fell in love with another actress, Sylvia. Sylvia managed to bring Truman out of the sight of cameras long enough to warn him that his reality is fake before she was taken away, with her "father" claiming they are traveling to Fiji. While Truman went on to marry Meryl, he continues to fantasize about Sylvia, using scraps from magazines to recreate her face in secret, and seeks travel to Fiji. Outside of the show, Sylvia has become part of a "Free Truman" campaign that demands the end of the show. The film begins during the thirtieth year of the show. Truman starts noticing unusual events that seem centered on him: a falling spotlight, rain that only falls on him, and a radio channel that precisely describes his movements. Truman spots a disheveled man and recognizes him as his father, who had sneaked back into the set, but other actors quickly drag the man away. Despite efforts by Meryl and Trumans best friend Marlon to reassure him, Truman becomes even more suspicious about his life. One day, he takes Meryl by surprise by going on an impromptu road trip, but their way is blocked by increasingly implausible emergencies. Meryl begins to break down from the stress; during an argument with Truman, she breaks character and is taken off the show. Hoping to bring Truman back to a controllable state, Christof re-introduces Trumans father to the show properly, under the guise of having lost his memory after the boating accident. Truman seems to return to his routines, except that after Meryl moves out he begins sleeping in his basement. One evening the production staff discovers that the sleeping Truman is completely out of their sight. Marlon is sent to check on Truman, finding that he has left a dummy and a tape recorder in his place and disappeared through a makeshift tunnel. Marlon breaks character, and Christof orders the first transmission cut in the shows history while a citywide search for Truman is launched. Audiences around the world are drawn to this sudden change. Truman is found sailing out of Seahaven, having conquered his fear of water, and Christof resumes the broadcast as he sends a man-made lightning storm to try to capsize the boat. Network executives fear that Truman may die on live television, but Truman manages to persist. Realizing he cannot dissuade Truman any further, Christof ends the storm. Truman continues to sail until – to his surprise – his boat punctures the wall of the dome. He finds an exit door, but Christof, speaking directly to Truman through a speaker system, tries to convince him to stay, stating there is "no more truth" in the real world and that by staying in his artificial world, he would have nothing to fear. Truman considers this, then states: "In case I dont see you... good afternoon, good evening, and good night," previously his unwitting catch-phrase, takes a bow, and leaves. Sylvia races to meet Truman, while Christofs supervisors end the show for the last time and the audience starts looking for something else to watch.
The Truman Show
1998