The story starts with all furniture and things being thrown out of the house. Spike chases Tom while Tom chases Jerry. Together, they beat each other up. However, Spike stops and questions why they cannot be allies with each other. The trio make a truce, sign a peace treaty and become friends. As the three of them sleep together, Tom covers Jerry up, Jerry closes Spikes mouth to stop him snoring and Spike turns off the alarm clock to make breakfast. Spike pours three glasses of milk while Tom brushes Jerrys teeth and cleans his ears. Then, Spike takes three glasses and pours equal milk in Tom and Jerrys glass but pours more milk in his own glass. Then, they all do flossing. One day, Jerry goes outside while Butch is making on his meal on a garbage can. When Butch finds out that Jerry is here, he picks him and puts him on the plate. Tom is shocked to see that Butch is trying to eat Jerry, so he saves Jerry by flipping the cans lid into Butchs face. Tom cleans Jerry and kisses him in the head before walking away. Butch, seeing this, shrieks in disbelief and beats himself with a brick in a silly way. Tom then walks along the sidewalk while the dog eating a bone. When the dog saw Tom, he decides to use him as a meal. The same thing happened to Spike, who knocks all of the teeth out of the dog. Spike tries to poke an apple stick in Toms mouth into Toms throat, saving him but accidentally knocking him out. A few days later, the three then walk along the sidewalk. Spike takes off his fur to help them across a muddy puddle, but a meat truck driving by splashes the mud on their faces, causing the characters to reemerge a blackface. Just then, a steak drops out of the truck, much to the trios delight. They take it home, but each of them greedily divides the steak so that they have the largest share (Tom stabs Spike in a hand with a fork), causing an argument that causes the steak to fly out of the window and drop into the gutter water and down the drain. The three look at each other and realizing they can no longer be friends. Spike angrily tears the treaty and the trio continue their original fight to beat each other up.
The Truce Hurts
1948