At the Metropolitan Museum of Art, an attempted robbery of precious paintings fails when museum employees discover imposters posing as staff who have been smuggled in using a Trojan Horse. In all the confusion of locking down the museum and capturing the robbers, billionaire Thomas Crown (Pierce Brosnan) slips into an adjacent room and steals the painting of San Giorgio Maggiore at Dusk by Monet. The insurers of the $100 million artwork send investigator Catherine Banning (Rene Russo) to assist NYPD Detective Michael McCann (Denis Leary) in solving the crime. McCann is annoyed that he has a civilian involved in the investigation, but is attracted to Banning. He asks his second in command to do a background check on her. The next morning as the police are reviewing video of the robbery, Banning shows up. They notice that the room containing the Monet couldnt be seen on the screen. In discussing why with a museum employee, they deduce that something caused the temperature to rise in that room so the new cameras couldnt differentiate between people and walls. She goes back to the room with Michael where she realizes that one of the benches only has two legs when in the video it had three. They then brainstorm over what could have been in the briefcase to cause the change in temperature. Crown not only shows up to finger one of the detained robbers, but donates one of his own personal paintings that fits the same space as the Monet. After watching Crown, she looks up who has been attempting to buy Monets and finds his name on the list again and again. She convinces Michael to let her begin surveillance on him and finds that he is someone who would steal the painting not for the money, but for the excitement. After the press conference donating the new painting, Catherine attracts Crown by intimating that she knows what he did. On her way out, he asks her for a date and she accepts. Before the date, Crown goes to see his therapist (Faye Dunaway), who notices a change in her patient. On their first date, Crown takes her to the museum and then to dinner, all while being tailed by the police. Their attraction is evident as is their intimate knowledge of each others background. Catherine gets her hands on his keys and has a copy made for later. When he drops her off, he reveals he knows she has no furniture in her apartment and she returns his keys without him knowing they were ever gone. They both feel a palpable change is about to occur in their lives and press on with the cat and mouse game. The next day, she illegally enters into Thomas house and searches for the painting. Along with her team they search the entire house to no avail until she enters his study. She presses a button under the desk that opens a panel in the wall and finds the Monet. She triumphantly enters the police station where an expert is waiting to authenticate it. They find that it was a witty copy, painted over the kitschy Poker Sympathy. Enraged, she asks where to find Crown. He is at a Black and White Ball and she crashes, interrupting a dance with his beautiful young date. She angrily tells him she doesnt need him to lend her clues, and he responds that he cant be arrested for a joke. After a hot dance, they kiss and end up at Crowns home where they have sex in many rooms (and the stairs). At breakfast, his valet brings her the distinct drink she had her first day in New York, causing her to bemoan that he knew she would sleep with him (which she denied would happen on their first date). They begin to date regularly and he even takes her to his home on a Caribbean island that he claims hes never taken anyone to. When they arrive, both a painting and clothes that fit her exactly are there. He teases her about seeing the painting to the point that she puts it in the fire, only to find out that it wasnt what she thought. The next morning after a serious talk, she wakes to find him having a meeting with some serious looking men. When he finds her on the beach later, she confronts him with the knowledge that she knows hes preparing to run. He offers her a lot of money to throw the case (yet admits no wrongdoing) and come with him. When they return, a jealous Michael confronts Catherine with pictures of Crown and what he has been doing since they returned. At first she pretends she doesnt care, then folds and asks to see the pictures. They are of Crown with the same beautiful young woman again. Feeling betrayed, she hands Michael pictures of the borders of the Monet, stating that they are photographed before being insured so a forgery can be discerned. Catherine is not the only one with mixed feelings. Crown has seen his therapist throughout the relationship and she warns him that they are very much alike, so Catherine wont realize that he truly cared for her until shes lost him. They continue to date and he asks her to leave with him. When she is slow to respond, he asks her if it is because of the young lady he had been photographed with, Anna. He then confesses that he purposefully allowed the police to see them together, knowing shed find out. She then commands that his valet stop the car and she gets out, with Crown close behind. She is angry that he tried to hurt her and he responds that he only did it to insure that he was not the only one with feelings involved. He then asks her to leave with him again. When she returns to the police station, Michael reminds her of the border pictures and that they found some likely forgers in the city. They go to visit them, but they each blame the other. The second (who is in jail) sparks curiosity in Catherine and she thinks there is something he knows, but isnt saying. She then goes to see Crown, and finds him packing with Anna. Feeling used, she turns to leave and he attempts to stop her so he can explain. He promises that there is nothing going on between him and Anna and that she merely wanted to be paid for a job she did for him. Catherine doesnt believe it, so he promises to return the painting so they can be together. Incredulous, she asks if he expects her to believe him. He gives her a date, time and location to meet him after he returns it and kisses her, giving her the option of leaving with him or turning him in. She breaks away in tears and leaves. She ends up at Michaels and gives Crown up. The next day, the police have staked out the museum and are waiting for him to show so they can arrest him. Michael gets a phone call and divulges that the forger was Anna, the daughter of one of the forgers they visited, Heinrich Knutzhorn. Her father had owned a gallery with Crown and he had become her guardian when her father had gone to prison. Catherine is mortified at her mistake and even more so when Crown shows up dressed as the man in the painting, The Son of Man. Michael asks if she warned him and when she insists she did not, he responds that Crown knew she would betray him. He quickly blends into the crowd while sending the police on a wild goose chase when other men matching his description and dress flood the museum passing identical briefcases. The room where the Monet was is heavily guarded, so they have no idea how he is going to return it. After disposing of his Son of Man clothes, Crown throws a few tear gas shells into the room where the original Monet painting was hanging. The fire sprinklers open up and to avoid any damage the covers start to close over the paintings. However, the door in front of the Pissarro Crown donated is stuck. The water washes away the paint to reveal the Monet. When they look to see what stopped the doors, they find a pencil stamped with, "Crown Acquisitions". What occurred is now clear; immediately after stealing the original Monet painting, Thomas had Anna forge a Pissarro over it with watercolor and replaced it via the donation two days later. However, when the shields retract, they find another painting is missing; Banks of the Seine at Argenteuil by Édouard Manet. It is the painting Catherine told Crown on their first date she would have taken instead of the Monet. Her people are not responsible for it and theirs has been recovered, so it is no longer her business. Michael says he has more important crimes to concentrate on, so Crown is free to do whatever he wants. When Catherine goes to the location she was supposed to meet Thomas, she encounters a man she thinks is him. However, when he turns around, it is one of the men from the museum dressed as the Son of Man with a gift from Crown for her: the newly stolen Manet. Devastated, she goes to the airport and asks the clerk to mail the painting to Michael at police headquarters before she catches a flight to Britain. Visibly shaken on the plane and clutching a shot of hard liquor, Catherine falls apart. A hand reaches through the seats from behind her and gives her a handkerchief while using a voice that doesnt quite sound right. She looks in the seat behind her to find Crown. She leaps at him, furious at his actions. The stewardess comes to see what the commotion is, but by then Thomas has calmed her by kissing her. She then whispers in his ear, "If you pull a stunt like that again, Ill break both your arms".
The Thomas Crown Affair (1999 film)
1999