Tom Ripley is a young man struggling to make a living in 1950s New York City with his "talents": telling lies, forging signatures and impersonating people. While working at a party, he is approached by the wealthy shipbuilder Herbert Greenleaf, who mistakenly believes that Ripley attended Princeton with his son, Dickie. Greenleaf recruits Ripley, for $1,000, to travel to Italy to persuade Dickie to return home. During the trip to Italy, Ripley strikes up a friendship with an American socialite, Meredith Logue, while pretending to be Dickie. In the Italian seaside town of Mongibello, Ripley charms himself into the lives of Dickie and his fiancée, Marge, partly through pretending to be a fellow jazz lover. Ripley becomes infatuated with Dickies life; he also becomes obsessed with Dickie himself. Eventually, however, Dickie tires of him and starts spending more time with his Princeton friend Freddie Miles, a womanizer who treats Ripley with contempt. When Dickie impregnates a local woman, he rejects her and she drowns herself. Only Ripley knows what happened, and promises to keep it a secret. Meanwhile, Dickie catches Ripley dressed in Dickies clothes and pretending to be him in front of a mirror, which further alienates him from Ripley. When Dickies father cuts off Ripleys travel funds, Dickie disinvites Ripley to a group skiing holiday, but offers to take him on a short, final trip to San Remo before they part. They take a boat out, but when Ripley suggests they move in together, Dickie becomes angry, accusing Ripley of mooching. The two fight, and Ripley beats Dickie to death with an oar. Ripley scuttles the boat in a nearby cove. Realizing that people easily mistake him for Dickie, Ripley decides to impersonate him. He forges a letter to Marge, convincing her that Dickie has left her to live in Rome. He creates the illusion that Dickie is still alive by checking into one Roman hotel as Dickie and another as himself, creating an exchange of communications between the two. Through forgery, he is able to draw on Dickies allowance, which allows him to live lavishly. He runs into Meredith, and pretends to romance her to gain access to her wealthy circle of friends. His ruse is threatened when Marge arrives in Rome, so he breaks it off with Meredith to prevent being discovered. Freddie shows up at Ripleys apartment looking for Dickie, and is immediately suspicious. When the landlady addresses Tom with "Ciao Dickie", Freddie realizes the fraud, but Ripley beats him to death with a stone bust. After disposing of the body, Ripley is forced into a cat-and-mouse existence between the Italian police and Marge. Realizing that the police suspect Dickie of murdering Freddie, Ripley forges a suicide note to dispose of the Dickie persona once and for all. He then travels to Venice, where he meets Marges friend, Peter Smith-Kingsley, and they develop feelings for each other. Herbert Greenleaf travels to Italy to meet with the police, bringing along a private detective, Alvin MacCarron. Ripley prepares to kill Marge when she discovers Dickies rings in Ripleys possession, but Peter interrupts them. Mr. Greenleaf dismisses Marges suspicions, and MacCarron reveals to Ripley that the police are convinced that Dickie, who had a history of violence, murdered Freddie before killing himself. MacCarron further indicates that out of appreciation for Ripleys loyalty to Dickie, Mr. Greenleaf intends to bequeath Dickies trust fund to him. Free and clear of his crimes, Ripley boards a ship to Greece with Peter; it is implied that they are now lovers. He is surprised to encounter Meredith, who knows him as Dickie. He realizes he must kill Peter to prevent being exposed as an impostor; killing Meredith would attract too much attention because she is traveling with members of her family. Sobbing, he strangles Peter, and returns to his cabin.
The Talented Mr. Ripley (film)
1999