In Venice, the musketeers Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, with the help of Milady de Winter, steal airship blueprints made by Leonardo da Vinci. However, they are betrayed by Milady, who incapacitates them and sells the blueprints to the Duke of Buckingham. A year later, dArtagnan leaves his village in Gascony for Paris in hopes of becoming a musketeer as his father was, only to learn that they were disbanded. At a rural bar, he challenges Captain Rochefort, leader of Cardinal Richelieus guard, to a duel after being offended by him, but Rochefort merely shoots him while hes distracted. Once in Paris, dArtagnan separately encounters Athos, Porthos and Aramis and, accidentally offending all three, schedules separate duels with each. Athos brings Porthos and Aramis to the duel as his seconds, causing dArtagnan to realize their true identities. Richelieus guards arrive to apprehend them, but, inspired by dArtagnan, the musketeers fight together and win. All four are summoned before the young King Louis XIII and Richelieu urges him to execute them, but Queen Anne is impressed by their bravery and the king condecorates them instead. Richelieu instructs Milady, now his accomplice, to plant false love letters among Queen Annes possessions, steal her diamond necklace, and take it to the Tower of London in order to frame her as having an affair with Buckingham, which would force King Louis to execute her and declare war on England. At this point, the people would demand a more experienced leader: Richelieu himself. In order to secure her own position, Milady demands that Richelieu declare in a written authorization that she is working on behalf of France. The false letters are found and given to King Louis, who is advised by Richelieu to set up a ball at which Queen Anne would be forced to wear the necklace. If she doesnt, then her affair is real, and there will be war. Queen Annes lady-in-waiting Constance Bonacieux discovers Richelieus plan and pleads with the musketeers to stop him. They follow Milady and Buckingham to London, while Constance is captured by Rochefort for helping the musketeers to escape from him. In London, Milady tells Buckingham the musketeers have arrived to take revenge on him and teaches him all their tendencies in battle. DArtagnan is captured, but turns out to be a decoy, allowing his associates to steal Buckinghams airship and rescue him. Miladys getaway coachman reveals himself as the musketeers manservant Planchet and delivers her to his masters, who retrieve the necklace from her. Athos prepares to execute Milady for her treachery, but she leaps off the airship, apparently dying on her own terms. The musketeers depart back to Paris, only to be intercepted by Rochefort in a much larger airship, for Milady had given Richelieu copies of da Vincis blueprints. Rochefort offers to exchange Constance for the necklace, but captures dArtagnan and mounts an assault as soon as he retrieves the jewels. His superior airship has the upper hand and severely damages the opposing vessel, but the musketeers use the clouds to rally and counterattack. The fight ends when both ships ram each other, crashing onto Notre Dame. On the roof, dArtagnan duels and ultimately kills Rochefort. Constance is sent ahead to quietly return the necklace to Queen Anne.The musketeers arrive at the ball and, for the sake of King Louis and his people, lie by claiming that Rochefort tried to sabotage an airship that Richelieu built for them, and that they executed him for his treason on Richelieus permission. To convince the king, Athos presents Miladys authorization, which the former accepts. Richelieu, satisfied, offers the musketeers a place in his guards, but they refuse, and Richelieu vows revenge. Meanwhile, Milady is found alive at the English Channel by Buckingham, who declares his intention to exact revenge. The camera then pulls back to show him advancing towards France with a massive fleet of battleships and airships.
The Three Musketeers (2011 film)
2011