The film opens with criminal Dean Keaton lying badly wounded on a ship docked in the San Pedro Bay. He is confronted by a mysterious figure whom he calls "Keyser", who shoots him dead and sets fire to the ship. The bloodbath on the ship leaves only two survivors: Arkosh Kovash, a Hungarian mobster hospitalized with severe burns; and Roger "Verbal" Kint, a con artist with cerebral palsy. Customs agent Dave Kujan flies from New York City to interrogate Verbal. In flashback the events that led Keaton, Michael McManus, Fred Fenster, Todd Hockney and Verbal onto the ship are described. In the flashback, set six weeks earlier in New York, Verbal and the other criminals are arrested on a trumped-up hijacking charge, and decide to pull another heist to get back at the police. Led by Keaton, a former corrupt policeman, they rob a group of corrupt cops who transport smugglers in a police convoy. They then go to California to fence the stolen jewels with a criminal named Redfoot, who turns them on to another jewel heist. The quarry turns out to be heroin, and the five have to shoot their way out. Soon after, a lawyer named Kobayashi tells them that Keyser Söze, a Turkish crime lord with a legendary reputation from whom all of the thieves have unwittingly stolen, has offered them a job: invade a ship manned by a gang of Argentinian drug dealers with whom Söze is competing and destroy $91 million worth of cocaine onboard. When Kujan learns of Söze from FBI agent Jack Baer, he questions Verbal about him. Verbal tells Kujan a story about Söze: that he had murdered his own family after they had been attacked by a gang of Hungarian criminals, and then massacred the Hungarians and everyone they held dear. He then went underground, never to be seen again, and did business only through underlings who did not know for whom they were working. He became a fearsome urban legend, "a spook story that criminals tell their kids at night". After Fenster runs out on the group, Kobayashi gives them a location at which to find their compatriots dead body. They try to kill Kobayashi, but he strong-arms them into performing the heist by threatening their loved ones. They stake out the ship and kill several Argentinian and Hungarian gangsters, but find no drugs on board. McManus, Hockney and a man locked aboard the ship are killed by an unseen person, who also kills Keaton and sets the ship on fire as Verbal looks on. Verbal concludes his story, but Kujan does not believe it. He insists that Keaton must be Söze, as one of the murder victims on the boat was Arturo Marquez, a drug dealer who escaped prosecution by claiming he could identify Söze — and who was represented by Edie Finneran, Keatons lawyer and girlfriend. Kujan claims that the Argentinians were selling Marquez to Sözes Hungarian rivals and Keaton used the heist as a distraction to allow him to kill Marquez. Kujan also informs Verbal that Finneran has been murdered. Verbal says that the entire plan was Keatons idea, but refuses to testify in court. Verbals bond is posted and he is released. Moments later, Kujan realizes that Verbals entire story was a lie, pieced together from details on a crowded bulletin board in the office. Meanwhile, Verbal walks outside, gradually dropping his limp and flexing his supposedly withered hand. As Kujan runs after Verbal, a fax comes in from the hospital where Kovash is being treated for his burns: a police sketch artists rendering of Söze, dictated by Kovash, that looks exactly like Verbal. Kujan misses Verbal by moments, as the latter disappears into a car driven by "Kobayashi".
The Usual Suspects
1995