Parrish (Ford), a former Union Army officer, has been living out west to facilitate his recovery from an old war wound. Now that he has a clean bill of health, he plans to sell his land to Anchor Ranch and move east with his fiancée, Caroline (Wynn). However, he is troubled when he witnesses the town sheriff being gunned down by Wade Matlock (Jaeckel) one of the henchmen working for the Anchor Ranch. Later, Anchors crippled owner, Lew Wilkison (Robinson), presents a low ball offer for Parrishs ranch, telling him he has 24 hours to respond. After thinking about it, Parrish decides to sell. Then, one of Parrishs ranch hands is murdered by Matlock. Parrishs men ride into town for revenge, but Parrish orders them back to his ranch and tells them that the new town sheriff, who works for Lew Wilkison, is waiting to arrest them if they kill Matlock. Alone, Parrish confronts Matlock in the town saloon, surrounded by Wilkisons men. Parrish asks Matlock to give himself up for the killing. Matlock begins to laugh. Suddenly, Parrish slaps Matlocks face, grabs Matlocks gun hand, while pulling his own gun and killing Matlock. Parrish quickly exits the saloon before Wilkisons men can react. The next day, Parrish rides to the Anchor Ranch and tells Wilkison that his ranch is not for sale. Further, as he rides out, Parrish tells Wilkison, "Dont force me to fight, because you wont like the way I fight." This riles everyone at the Anchor Ranch, except Judith (Foster), the daughter of Wilkison and Martha (Stanwyck). Not all is well at Anchor with Martha carrying on with his brother, Cole (Keith), who also has a Mexican girl friend in town. Led by Cole, Wilkisons men burn down Parrishs ranch. Unbeknownst to Cole, Parrish and his men expected this. Utilizing Parrishs military experience, they ambush Cole and the Wilkison men, causing major casualties. Back at the Anchor ranch, Cole and Lew argue and Cole decides to leave, going into town to see his Mexican girl friend. Meanwhile,Parrish and his men cause Wilkisons horses to stampede, forcing all of Wilkisons men to leave the ranch to deal with the horses. With the ranch unguarded, Parrishs men set fire to the Anchor ranch. Still at the ranch, Lew and Martha are caught in the fire. Lew asks Martha for his crutches and she throws them into the fire before running from the burning house, leaving Lew to die. Martha finds Cole and tells him that Lew is dead and together, they can rebuild Anchor. Cole agrees to help Martha and assembles a small army of men, with help from the sheriff, who believes that Lew is dead. Back at the ranch, Judith finds Lew, who has crawled from the burning house and is hurt, but far from dead. Judith takes Lew to the hills where Parrish and his men are hiding. Cole and Martha return to the ranch with the army of men but are confronted by Parrish and Lew. The sheriff is shocked to see Lew, who orders the small army to leave his property. Parrish, seeing Cole in the distance, rides toward him for a final showdown. Martha smiles, expecting Cole to kill Parrish. They approach one another and start shooting. Cole is shot in the chest and falls to the ground, dead. Martha runs to him and as she kneels down, she sees Lew and Judith approaching her. In a panic, she runs from the ranch, only to be killed by Coless Mexican girl friend. Later, in town, Parrish and his men are loading supplies on their wagon, when Judith approaches and tells Parish that her father would like him to run Anchor. Parrish tells Judith he has his own ranch to rebuild and rides off. Then he quickly returns and smiling, he tells her "your father once told me hed get my ranch one way or another." Parrish and Judith ride off together.
The Violent Men
1955