The Women follows the lives of Manhattan women, focusing in particular on Mary Haines, the cheerful, contented wife of Stephen and mother of Little Mary. After a bit of gossip flies around the salon these wealthy women visit, Marys cousin Sylvia Fowler goes to a salon to get the newest, exclusive nail color: Jungle Red. She learns from a manicurist that Marys husband has been having an affair with a predatory perfume counter girl named Crystal Allen. A notorious gossip, Sylvia delights in sharing the news with Marys friends; she sets up Mary with an appointment with the same manicurist so that she hears the rumor about Stephens infidelity. While Marys mother urges her to ignore the gossip, Mary begins to have her own suspicions about her husbands increasingly frequent claims that he needs to work late. She decides to travel to Bermuda with her mother to think about the situation and hope the rumors will fade. Upon her return, Mary heads to a fashion show and learns that Crystal is in attendance, trying on clothes in a dressing room. Mary, at Sylvias insistence, confronts her about the affair, but Crystal is completely unapologetic and slyly suggests that Mary keep the status quo unless she wants to lose Stephen in a divorce. Heartbroken and humiliated, Mary leaves quickly. The gossip continues, exacerbated by Sylvia and her friend Edith, who turns the affair into a public scandal by recounting Sylvias version of the story to a notorious gossip columnist. Mary chooses to divorce her husband despite his efforts to convince her to stay. As she is packing to leave for Reno, Mary explains the divorce to Little Mary. On the train to Reno, where she will get her divorce, Mary meets several women with the same destination and purpose: the dramatic, extravagant Countess de Lave; Miriam Aarons, a tough-cookie chorus girl; and, to her surprise, her friend Peggy Day, a shy young woman. Mary and her new friends settle in at a Reno ranch, where they get plenty of unsolicited advice from Lucy, the gruffly warm-hearted woman who runs the ranch. The Countess tells tales of her multiple husbands and seems to have found another prospect in Reno, a cowboy named Buck Winston. Miriam reveals she has been having an affair with Sylvia Fowlers husband and plans to marry him. Peggy, who has discovered that she is pregnant, is urged to call her husband, resolve their misunderstanding, and end the divorce proceedings. She succeeds. Sylvia arrives at the ranch, now that her husband has requested a divorce ("Well, girls: move over"). When she discovers that Miriam is to become the new Mrs. Fowler, a catfight ensues. Mary succeeds in breaking up the fight. Miriam convinces her that she, too, should forget her pride, get her husband on the phone, and try to patch things up before their divorce becomes legal in a few hours. Before Mary can decide, it rings — the call is from Stephen, who informs Mary that Crystal and he have just been married. Two years pass. At the Haines apartment, Crystal, now Mrs. Haines, is taking a bubble bath and talking on the phone to her lover, who turns out to be Buck Winston, now the husband of the Countess and a successful radio star. Little Mary overhears the conversation before being shooed away by Crystal, who, not surprisingly, has no time or patience for the child. Sylvia figures out with whom Crystal has been speaking and is having an affair. Still an unrelenting gossip, Sylvia tucks this information away for later use. Mary hosts a dinner for her Reno friends to celebrate the two-year anniversary of the Countess and Buck, after which the Countess, Miriam, and Peggy go to a nightclub and urge Mary to come along. Mary decides to stay home. She chats with Little Mary, who inadvertently reveals how unhappy Stephen is and mentions Crystals "lovey dovey" talk with Buck on the telephone. This news changes Marys mind about the party. She gets dressed up, intent on fighting to get her ex back: "Ive had two years to grow claws, Mother -- Jungle Red!" At the nightclub (in the ladies room), Mary worms the details of the affair out of Sylvia, then makes sure that a gossip columnist (played by a real-life one, Hedda Hopper) is alerted to it. Mary tells the Countess that her husband Buck has been having an affair with Crystal, then informs Crystal that everyone knows what she has been doing. Crystal does not care and tells Mary she can have Stephen back, since she will now have Buck to support her. The Countess reveals that she has been funding Bucks radio career and that with Crystal, he will be penniless and out of a job. Crystal resigns herself to the fact that she will be heading back to the perfume counter, adding: "And by the way, theres a name for you ladies, but it isnt used in high society -- outside of a kennel." Mary, triumphant, heads out the door and up the stairs to win back Stephen, who is waiting for her.
The Women (1939 film)
2008