In 1630s New England, a man named William is banished from a Puritan plantation alongside his wife Katherine, daughter Thomasin, son Caleb, and fraternal twins Mercy and Jonas, due to a difference in interpretation of the New Testament. The family leaves the plantation and builds a farm by the edge of a large, secluded forest far from the Puritan settlement. Katherine soon gives birth to her fifth child, Samuel. Thomasin is playing peekaboo with Samuel when he abruptly disappears. Samuel is revealed to have been kidnapped by a witch, who crushes his body to pulp and uses it to make a flying ointment. Katherine, devastated, spends her days crying and praying. William takes Caleb hunting in the forest and confides to his son that he traded Katherines silver cup for hunting supplies. On the farm, the twins play with the familys goat, Black Phillip, claiming that he speaks to them. That night, Katherine questions Thomasin about the disappearance of her silver cup while implying Thomasin was responsible for the disappearance of Samuel. After the children retire to bed, they overhear their parents discussing sending Thomasin away to serve another family. Early the next morning, Thomasin finds Caleb preparing to hunt in the forest. She forces Caleb to take her with him by threatening to awaken their father. Their dog gives chase to a hare and Caleb follows on foot as the horse throws Thomasin off, knocking her unconscious. Caleb becomes lost in the woods and eventually stumbles upon the disemboweled corpse of his dog. He later discovers a moss-covered hovel. A seductive young woman appears at the door and lures Caleb towards her. Meanwhile, Thomasin awakens and reunites with her father, who is searching for her and Caleb. Katherine confronts Thomasin about taking Caleb into the woods and William reluctantly admits that he sold Katherines silver cup. That night, Caleb is found outside in the rain, naked and delirious from an unknown illness. Katherine suggests that her sons mysterious ailment is due to witchcraft and prays over him. The next day, Caleb suffers a violent seizure and expels a small apple from his mouth before dying. The twins accuse Thomasin of witchcraft and, in retaliation, she reveals their conversations with Black Phillip. Enraged, William boards both Thomasin and the twins inside the goat house. After dark, the twins and Thomasin awaken to find a hideous naked old woman drinking a white goats blood. Meanwhile, Katherine is overjoyed by a vision of Caleb and Samuels return. She begins breastfeeding the infant which is revealed to be a black raven pecking at her exposed and bloody breast. The next day William finds the stable destroyed, the goats eviscerated, the twins missing and an unconscious Thomasin lying nearby with blood-stained hands. As Thomasin awakens, Black Phillip gores William before her eyes. William, dying, picks up an axe and contemplates killing the goat, but resigns himself to death and quotes from the Book of Job before being knocked into a woodpile. The commotion awakens the unhinged Katherine, who now blames Thomasin for the tragedies that have beset the family and tries to strangle her. Thomasin grabs a nearby billhook and kills her in self-defense. Night falls and Thomasin, in desperation, urges Black Phillip to speak to her. The goat responds in human tongue and suddenly transforms into a man. He convinces her to sign her name in his book, guiding her hand as she does so and offering her the sights of the world and the luxurious life she wants to live. Thomasin wanders naked into the forest with Black Phillip, again incarnated as a goat, where she discovers a coven of witches dancing around a bonfire. The witches begin to levitate and a laughing Thomasin joins them above the trees.
The Witch (2015 film)
2016