Set and filmed on location in the tenement section of New Yorks Lower East Side, the film tells the story of a young boy, Tommy Woodry (Bobby Driscoll), who has a habit of crying wolf. Late one night, he climbs up the building fire escape and sees his two seemingly normal neighbors, Mr. and Mrs. Kellerson (Paul Stewart and Ruth Roman), murder a drunken sailor in their apartment. No one – neither the boys parents nor the police – believes young Tommy when he tells them what he has seen, since they all assume that this is just another of the boys tall tales. When Mrs. Woodry (Barbara Hale) takes Tommy to apologize to the Kellersons, he refuses and they become suspicious of him. When Mrs. Woodry leaves to care for a sick relative and Mr. Woodry is away at his night job, the murderous neighbors plan to kill Tommy, who has been locked in his room by his father to prevent further escapades. Under the pretense of going to the police, the Kellersons take Tommy to a dark alley, where they try to kill him. Tommy escapes, but the pair quickly recaptures him, taking him back to their apartment in a taxi. Tommy screams at a policeman for help, but the officer remembers Tommy as the boy who came to the station earlier and failed to convince the police. The Kellersons fool the cab driver by posing as Tommys parents. Mr. Woodry returns from work to find Tommy missing. Mr. Woodry then asks a police officer for help. Meanwhile, the Kellersons have Tommy secured in their apartment. Tommy escapes, climbs onto the roof and is pursued by Mr. Kellerson, but Mrs. Kellerson has a change of heart about killing Tommy. The police officer suggests that Tommy went to see his mother, and he and Mr. Woodry leave the tenement. Tommy sees his father leave in his car and shouts for him, the sound of which alerts Mr. Kellerson to Tommys location. The chase resumes with Tommy finding the body of the dead sailor. The upper building starts to collapse. As Mr. Kellerson is about to grab Tommy, Tommy pulls a rafter aside and Kellerson falls before the rafter collapses and kills him. This time, Tommy screams loud enough for neighbors to hear and they call the police. The boy is rescued and his parents are proud of him.
The Window (film)
1949