U.S. Senator William Tadlock (Kirk Douglas) is leaving his home in Missouri in 1843, heading west on the Oregon Trail by wagon train. His son and slave come along, with Dick Summers (Robert Mitchum) as a hired guide. Joining them on the expedition are farmer Lije Evans (Richard Widmark), his wife Rebecca (Lola Albright), and 16-year-old son Brownie (Michael McGreevey). Among others there are also the newlyweds Johnnie (Michael Witney) and Amanda Mack (Katherine Justice), plus the Fairman and McBee families. Shy young wife Amanda isnt satisfying his needs so Johnnie gets drunk and strays with young Mercy McBee (Sally Field). He also shoots at what he drunkenly thinks is a wolf and ends up killing a Sioux chiefs son. Tadlock knows that no other form of justice will do for the Indians if the wagon train is being pursued by them out of vengeance, so he hangs Johnnie, for the safety of the traveling party, but to their outrage. On the trail, it turns out Mercy is now pregnant as well. Brownie proposes marriage to her. Tadlocks son is killed in a stampede causing the senator to be so distraught he asks his slave to take a whip to his back. Lije Evans has seen enough. The last straw comes when Tadlock destroys Evans Wifes antique clock when he refused to unload it off the wagon. A fight then ensues when Tadlock is attacked by Evans, for which Tadlock retialates by trying to shoot Evans only for Summers to stop him. The others form a lynch mob and attempt to hang Tadlock, but Evans talked them out of it, who now takes charge of the trek. Nearly to the end, Rebecca Evans shows the others Tadlocks grand plan, just beyond a steep ravine. They lower possessions, livestock, and each other down the steep escarpment to reach the wagon road to the Willamette Valley. Emotionally destroyed by the loss of Johnnie, Amanda Mack cuts a rope and causes Tadlock to plunge to his death. Amanda runs off into the desert, but the others press on to Oregon. Summers stays behind, departing to somewhere unknown. Perhaps, going after Amanda for the Tadlocks murder.
The Way West (film)
1967