Thanks to falsified dental records supplied by his former neighbor Nicholas "Oz" Ozeransky (Matthew Perry), retired hitman Jimmy "The Tulip" Tudeski (Bruce Willis) now spends his days compulsively cleaning his house and perfecting his culinary skills with his wife, Jill (Amanda Peet), a purported assassin who has yet to pull off a "clean" hit (everyone she is hired to kill dies in bizarre accidents before she can kill them). Oz, meanwhile, is now married to Jimmys ex-wife Cynthia (Natasha Henstridge) and has a dental practice in California, now expecting their first child, but the relationship is complicated due to Ozs over-excessive paranoia about security, as well as Cynthias secret continued contact with Jimmy (Although Oz also talks with Jill on occasion). Their lives are further complicated by the return of Laszlo Gogolak (Kevin Pollak), a father figure of Jimmys who ran the mob that Jimmy was once a member of, Jimmy and Jill having killed his son, Janni, while Laszlo was in prison. Having deduced that Jimmy is still alive, Laszlo abducts Cynthia and threatens Oz to try to learn Jimmys location, Oz only just managing to escape, by turning the lights out. With no other options, Oz contacts Jimmy and Jill for assistance, but Jimmy initially refuses to help until Laszlos men attack the house after following Ozs car. Having captured Laszlos remaining son, Strabonitz (Strabo, for short), Jimmy tells Laszlo that he will trade Cynthia for Strabo, but the groups attempt to check into a hotel results in Oz unintentionally triggering further conflict between Jimmy and Jill when he reveals that Jimmy still wears a crucifix Cynthia gave him. Retreating to a bar to get drunk, Jimmy becomes increasingly depressed about his apparent failure to father a child with Jill, although Oz becomes frustrated when Jimmy starts discussing his and Cynthias old sex life, culminating in them becoming so drunk that Oz and Jimmy wake up in the same bed (Although nothing happens). Increasingly frustrated at her poor sex life with Jimmy, Jill attempts to seduce Oz, resulting in Jimmy walking in on them and knocking Oz out, subsequently regaining his passion for Jill and his work as the two proceed to have sex in the bathroom. While re-arming themselves at Ozs house, the three are attacked by an unknown marksman, whose attempts to shoot them result in Strabo being killed in the crossfire, the subsequent argument causing Jill to leave in frustration at Jimmys insults of her capabilities and his cold dismissal of Oz. Increasingly driven to breaking point by recent events, Oz retreats to his practice, where Jimmy greets him to apologize for recent events, only for Ozs new receptionist Julie to chloroform Oz and Jimmy, revealing that she is the sister of Frankie Figgs, out for revenge for Oz and Jimmys role in her brothers death. Waking up with Cynthia and Jimmy in Laszlos apartment, Oz is shocked to learn that the current situation has been part of a plan by Jimmy and Cynthia from the beginning so that Cynthia could find Laszlos half of the first dollar he ever stole, which he had torn in half to be divided between Jimmy and Yanni when they were kids. Just as Laszlo is preparing to kill the three of them, Jill shows up, having set up Strabos body so that he appears to be alive and tied up in her car, threatening to detonate explosives in her car unless Laszlo releases Oz and Cynthia. Claiming to want to join Laszlos organization, Jill is ordered to shoot Jimmy, finally apparently shooting Jimmy in the heart when he informs her that shell never be a successful hitter. When Jills car detonates as Laszlos men go to release Strabo, it is revealed that Jill was in on the plan as well, having merely shot Jimmy with blanks. With Jules having been exposed as the shooter who killed Strabo, Laszlo shoots her, Jimmy subsequently having Jill shoot Laszlo in the foot, unable to kill the man who raised him. As the group depart, Jimmy and Cynthia reveal that the plan was set up to acquire Laszlos half of the dollar, the combined dollar revealing the account number for a Gogalak account containing $280 million. With Jill having revealed that she is pregnant, the four drive away while the police arrest Laszlo.
The Whole Ten Yards
2004