American architect Robert Lomax is an aspiring artist who relocates to Hong Kong for a year to see if he can make a living as a painter. Whilst aboard the Star Ferry, en route to Hong Kong Island, he surreptitiously sketches fellow passengers, including a smartly dressed young woman of seemingly lofty social status. She eventually introduces herself as Mei Ling, then accuses him of stealing her purse and demands his arrest. Fortunately, an independent witness informs the police officer of the true circumstances, and the situation is resolved. They eventually shake hands then go their separate ways. With limited financial resources, Robert looks for an inexpensive room in the teeming Wan Chai district, a poor area known for prostitution. By chance, he sees Mei Ling leaving a run-down hotel there. Inside, he astounds proprietor Ah Tong by renting a room for one whole month - rather than by the hour, as is more usual. In a bar next door, he is bemused to see Mei Ling again. This time dressed in a slinky red cheongsam and in the company of a sailor. He approaches her; she now says her name is Suzie Wong, and that they have never met before. Eventually, Suzie admits who she is, laughing that she had him fooled for a while.  The following day, Robert visits a banker to set up an account. The bankers secretary and daughter, Kay ONeill, is immediately attracted to the newcomer. Robert asks Suzie to model for him. As they become better acquainted, he learns she was forced into her profession as a means of survival, when she was ten years old. She begins falling in love with him, but he tries to dissuade her, although he finds her very appealing. Meanwhile, he is also pursued discreetly by Kay. At a dinner party she is hosting, Robert meets Ben Marlowe, whom he recognizes as one of Suzies clients, with his wife. Ben offers to make Suzie his mistress, and she accepts in order to make Robert jealous. When Ben reconciles with his wife, he asks Robert to break the news to Suzie. She is so hurt by the rejection that Robert finally admits he loves her. Initially, the two are very happy, but their relationship becomes strained. One day, Robert follows Suzie on one of her periodic disappearances. He finds her visiting the infant son she has kept hidden from him. He accepts the child. When his paintings fail to sell, he finds himself facing financial difficulties, and both Kay and Suzie offer to give him money, but his pride will not let him accept. When Suzie pays his rent and offers to resume prostitution to help him, he drives her away in a fit of anger. Realizing his mistake, Robert searches for Suzie. When he finally finds her, he learns her baby has died in the annual flooding, and the two commit themselves to each other.
The World of Suzie Wong (film)
1960