During a vacation with his grandmother Helga in Norway, Luke Eveshim is warned about "real" witches, female demons with a genocidal hatred for children, all of whom emit an odor obnoxious to witches. Helga tells him that her childhood friend fell victim to a witch and cursed to spend the rest of her life trapped inside a painting. After Lukes parents are accidentally killed, Helga becomes Lukes legal guardian and they move to England. While building a treehouse, Luke is accosted by a witch, though he sees through her ruse and avoids his potential death, hiding at the top of the tree. On Lukes ninth birthday, Helga falls ill with diabetes. Her doctor advises them to spend the summer by the sea. They stay at a seaside resort, where Luke meets and befriends a gluttonous but friendly boy named Bruno Jenkins, while getting on the bad side of the hotel manager, Mr. Stringer, after his pet mice frighten a maid who is having an affair with the manager. Also staying at the hotel are a convention of witches, masquerading as the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, with the Grand High Witch, the German-accented leader of the worlds witches, attending their annual meeting. Luke inadvertently discovers the witches while playing with his pet mice inside the ballroom, where the witches hold their meeting. The Grand High Witch unveils her latest weapon: a formula to turn children into mice, which they will use on confectionery products in sweet shops and candy stores to be opened using money provided by the Grand High Witch. Having already been given chocolate laced with the formula a few hours earlier, Bruno is lured into the room, turns into a mouse and flees. Luke attempts to escape and runs to Helga in their room, but finds her resting after having a dizzy spell. He is kidnapped and is forced to drink a potion, turning him into a mouse, though he avoids being squashed. He finds Bruno and reunites with Helga, who has since recovered. Luke devises a plan to kill the witches by sneaking into the Grand High Witchs room to steal a bottle of the formula. Luke manages to drop the bottle into a pot of cress soup destined for the witches dinner tables. Mr. Jenkins also orders the soup, though Helga stops him from consuming it at the last minute. As the witches enter the dining room, Miss Irvine, the Grand High Witchs assistant who has become disillusioned by her mistress harsh treatment of her, quits working with the witches and thus gets spared from the massacre that is about to happen. The formula turns all the witches into mice, and the staff and hotel guests join in killing them, unknowingly ridding England of its witches, as Helga returns Bruno to his parents. The Grand High Witch is spotted by Helga, who traps her under a water jug, enabling Mr. Stringer to dispatch her with a meat cleaver. Luke and Helga return to their home, where they are delivered the Grand High Witchs trunk full of money and an address book of all witches in the United States. Luke (who had secretly readdressed the trunk at the resort) suggests that they might use it to eradicate the worlds witches once and for all. That night, Miss Irvine pays a visit to the house and uses her power to return Luke to his human body and return his pet mice, along with his glasses, before leaving to repeat the process with Bruno.
The Witches (1990 film)
1990