The Steed family moves from their Vermont settlement to Upstate New York to set up a farm. Benjamin, the father, hires two local boys, Joseph and Hyrum Smith, recommended by Martin Harris, a prominent figure of the Latter Day Saint movement. Joseph and Hyrum are hard workers but eschewed by some town members, who are put off by Josephs claims of seeing a vision, Hyrums belief in his brothers vision and that Joseph will receive a "Gold Bible." The Steeds oldest son, Joshua, is quickly swayed by the town members and encourages his father to fire them. Joshua has a falling out with his father and leaves home. He finds work at the towns port but adopts the habits of his friends and becomes a drunkard. He courts Lydia McBride, but her father disapproves if him. The Steeds younger son, Nathan, believes Josephs story. He meets Lydia while he is trying to contact his brother. Benjamin ends his employment of the Smith boys, as he believes that his association with them is detrimental to his familys reputation. Joshua and his friends learn that Joseph is about to receive the "Gold Bible" (the Golden Plates) and set up a plan to ambush him and steal the gold. Lydia learns of their plan and warns the Steed family, who then warn the Smith family. They arrive at the Smith home just before Joseph does. Though he is attacked, he retains the plates and is relatively unharmed. Learning of the attack, Benjamin and Nathan head into town to find Joshua. Finding him at his usual haunt, the local bar, Benjamin confronts him. Joshua is standoffish but does not deny that he and his friends attacked Joseph. A fight breaks out between Benjamin and Joshua, but no serious injuries are inflicted. The confrontation results in Joshua fleeing the town and becoming an outlaw, who eventually settles in Missouri. With Joshua gone, Nathan and Lydias relationship grows and strengthens. To receive permission to marry Nathan, Lydia must attend a private school in Boston for a year, and Nathan uses the time to purchase his own land and build his own home. However, he becomes a member of the Latter-Day Saint movement that had been established by Joseph, which infuriates McBrides father, and he demands for her to break her engagement to him. She flees from the school before completing the requisite year. At the edge of the Frontier, Joshua learns of his brothers engagement to Lydia for whom he still holds a torch. He returns to Palmyra and confronts Nathan. After a squabble, Lydia herself declares that she loves Nathan and would never return to Joshua. He flees again as the towns law enforcement has a warrant for his arrest. Lydia confronts Nathan, asking him whether he loves her or the new gospel more. Because he is unable to deny either, she breaks with him. Nathan writes a letter to Lydia, trying to win her back and delivering her a copy of the Book of Mormon. Her father, however, finds it before she receives it and discards it in the trash. Benjamin has been suspicious of Joseph and his religion. His family is intrigued by Joseph and try to learn more, but Benjamin has forbidden mention of Josephs name or the religion. After a confrontation with Nathan, he reconsiders his decision and agrees to allow the family to investigate Josephs church if they need to. Nathan takes his sisters and his mother to one of Josephs meetings and are baptized. While they are gone, Lydia discovers Nathans discarded letter and book. Defying her parents, she visits Nathans home under construction and studies his Book of Mormon. Nathan returns to his farm to find a note from Lydia that quotes Ruth 1:16–17. There, he also finds Lydia, who accepts his proposal.
The Work and the Glory (film)
2004