Mrs. Stella Hadley (Fay Bainter) is a wealthy society widow living in Washington, D.C. Her husband once owned a staunchly Republican newspaper, the Chronicle, but it was sold to the Winters family and the new editorial board began supporting the Democrats and President Franklin D. Roosevelt. The film opens on December 7, 1941, as Mrs. Hadley celebrates her birthday with her alcoholic son, Ted (Richard Ney); her intelligent daughter, Pat (Jean Rogers); her ditzy best friend, Mrs. Cecilia Talbot (Spring Byington); her husbands old friend, Elliott Fulton (Edward Arnold); and her doctor and best friend, Dr. Leonard V. Meecham (Miles Mander). When the party-goers learn of the attack on Pearl Harbor, Mrs. Hadley sniffly announces that war will not change her lifestyle (a decision only Dr. Meecham supports). Ted works for Elliott Fulton, who has a high-ranking job at the War Department. He often lies about working late in order to go out drinking. Mrs. Talbot joins a womens war service organization headed by Mrs. Winters, hiding her involvement from Mrs. Hadley. Pat volunteers at an enlisted mens canteen and meets Army soldier Michael Fitzpatrick (Van Johnson). The two fall in love. When Ted is drafted, Mrs. Hadley tries to have Elliott pull strings to get him out of duty, but he declines. Ted sobers up after realizing he has to go into combat. Pat and Mike decide to wed, but Mrs. Hadley refuses to bless their union and does not attend the wedding. When Mrs. Hadley discovers that Mrs. Talbot is spending time with Mrs. Winters womens war service organization, she ends their friendship. The sniveling Dr. Meecham supports her every decision. Mrs. Hadleys refusal to sacrifice for the war effort and her anger at her family leaves her socially and personally isolated. She becomes depressed, and worries constantly about Ted (from whom she has not heard in months). Ted wins the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC) fighting in the Pacific. Mrs. Hadley receives a letter from Ted in which he describes his new friendship with Tony Winters, Mrs. Winters son. The press informs Mrs. Hadley that Tony, too, will win the DSC, but posthumously. Mrs. Hadleys reserve breaks down, and she consoles Mrs. Winters. President Roosevelt sends Mrs. Hadley a hand-written note praising her son, and Pat sends Mrs. Hadley a telegram announcing she is pregnant. Mrs. Hadley undergoes a complete change of heart. She reconciles with Mrs. Talbot, marries Elliott Fulton, turns her home into a center for war work, and decides to fly to Phoenix, Arizona, for the birth of her grandchild.
The War Against Mrs. Hadley
1942