In New York City in 1994, Luke Shapiro is trading marijuana in exchange for therapy from his psychiatrist, Dr. Jeffery Squires. Luke graduates from high school but while dealing at a party, he finds out that Justin and other people have gone away for the summer, except him and his classmate, Stephanie, Dr. Squires stepdaughter. When Luke returns home, he finds his parents arguing over money and their probable eviction. Luke starts dealing more marijuana to make money for his family. After a session with Dr. Squires, he bumps into Steph and invites her to come with him dealing around the city. Steph has a great time and gives Luke her number so she will not be lonely in the city for the summer. Luke phones Steph but ends up talking to Dr. Squires and they go out to a bar. Another client of Lukes shows up and while getting drunk and high, they get kicked out for underage drinking. Luke and Dr. Squires are walking from the bar and start tagging a wall but are apprehended by the police. Steph bails them out of jail and, against Dr. Squires wishes, takes Luke out for the day. Luke and Steph end up kissing. When Luke gets home, he finds he has strong feelings for her. Luke grabs a letter from his father and reads that his family is getting evicted. He tells his father to be a man and do something about it. Steph invites him to her familys house at Fire Island; Dr. Squires and his wife are going to try to fix their relationship on a second honeymoon. At the island, Steph finds out Luke is a virgin and offers to give him sex lessons. After taking a shower and having sex together, Luke tells Steph that he loves her. She reacts with astonishment and its obvious (to the viewer, although not to Luke) that shes not looking for that kind of relationship with him. Justin later contacts Steph asking if she wants to hang out. Luke asks Dr. Squires for help selling pot because he needs to make enough money for college. Luke introduces Dr. Squires to his client, Eleanor, and they hit it off. Lukes family gets evicted and is forced to stay with his grandparents in New Jersey. Luke visits Steph for companionship, but as she greets him at the door, Justin appears, to Lukes dismay, leaving with his heart broken. Luke goes to Fire Island to seek counseling with Dr. Squires. Dr. Squires is on a bender because of his now inevitable divorce and invites Luke to join him. While high, Dr. Squires starts to walk into the ocean to kill himself. Luke goes in after him to save him. They both end up back on the beach, alive, more sober, and cracking jokes. Luke later talks with Dr. Squires inside the Squires home. Squires wishes him good luck and tells him goodbye. As Luke is leaving, Steph follows him to the elevator to talk to him. However, Luke says "Do me a favor Steph, dont say anything; I wanna remember this; Ive never done it before." Stephanie replies "Never done what?" and Luke continues, "had my heart broken" and as he is on the verge of tears he goes into the elevator and Stephanie looks sad for a moment, before smiling and seeming to realize Luke will be fine. As Luke walks out of the complex, he puts in the mixtape Squires made for him and "All the Young Dudes" by Mott the Hoople begins playing. Luke is amused by it. In New Jersey, Luke tells his family he plans to become a psychiatrist. He says that he will be good at it because "everyone around me is so fucking crazy." Back in the city, Eleanor beeps Dr. Squires and asks him what hes doing tonight. He says "No plans." It then goes to Luke who is smoking a joint while waiting at a train stop. He flicks the joint at the camera and the movie cuts to black as the credits roll.
The Wackness
2008