T. S. Garp is the illegitimate son of a feminist mother, Jenny Fields, who wanted a child but not a husband. A nurse during World War II, she encounters a dying ball turret gunner known only as Technical Sergeant Garp (that being the only sound he is able to utter) who was severely brain damaged in combat. Unconstrained by convention and driven by her desire for a child, Jenny is able to rape Garp due to his priapism, thus impregnating herself. She names the resultant child after Garp and raises him on her own. Garp grows up, becoming interested in wrestling and fiction writing, topics his mother has little interest in. Garps writing piques the interest of the daughter of the schools wrestling coach, Helen Holm. She is wary of him. Jenny also observes Garps interest in sex in this regard and is intellectually curious about it, having little more than clinical interest in sex herself. She offers to procure a prostitute for Garp. After engaging the two of them in conversation on the subject, Jenny decides to write a book on her observations of lust and human sexuality. Her book is a partial autobiography called Sexual Suspect, and is an overnight sensation. Jenny becomes a feminist icon. She uses the proceeds from the book to found a center at her home for troubled and abused women and transsexuals. Meanwhile, Garps first novel is published, which impresses Helen. The two marry and eventually have two children, Duncan and Walt. Garp becomes a devoted parent and successful fiction writer, while Helen becomes a college professor. Having learned about his wifes infidelity with one of her students, Garp gets into a car accident while his children are riding in the back seat. He crashes into his wifes lovers car, parked in their driveway, while his wife is in the car performing fellatio. As a result, Walt is killed and Duncan suffers an eye injury. Garp, through the aid of his mother, learns to forgive himself and his wife for their fidelity problems. The couple reconcile, and they have a baby daughter named Jenny. Garp spends time visiting his mother and the people who live at her center, including transsexual ex-football player Roberta Muldoon. He also first hears the story of Ellen James, a girl who was gang raped and then had her tongue cut out so that she could not identify her attackers. Some of the women at Jennys center are "Ellen Jamesians", women who voluntarily cut out their own tongues as a show of solidarity. Garp is horrified by the practice and learns that the Jamesians have received a letter from Ellen James begging them to stop the practice, but that they have voted to refuse. Jenny receives credible death threats, because of both her center and her book. To Garps dismay, she is dismissive of physical danger, and in fact, decides to endorse a politician who supports her message. Garp writes a book about the life of Ellen James. The book is very successful and well-regarded, but is highly critical of the Jamesians. Garp begins receiving death threats of his own from them. During a political rally, Jenny is shot and killed by an anti-feminist fanatic. The women of Jennys center hold a memorial for her, but forbid all men from attending. Garp, dressed as a woman, is secreted into the memorial by Muldoon. He is identified by Pooh, a Jamesian he had known when they both were in school. A commotion breaks out, and Garp is in danger of being hurt, until a woman leads him out of the memorial, away from danger, and to a taxi. The woman is Ellen James, who thanks Garp for his book about her. The Jamesians are further outraged that Garp attended the memorial. Garp returns to his old school as the wrestling coach. One day during practice, Pooh enters the gymnasium and shoots him at close range with a pistol. Garp is airlifted away from the school by helicopter with his wife. He flashes back to an earlier time when his mother would toss him into the air.
The World According to Garp (film)
1982