Drifter "John Nada" finds construction work in Los Angeles and befriends fellow construction worker Frank Armitage, who leads him to a shantytown soup kitchen. A disruptive television signal and a preacher both warn of conspiracies, and Nada discovers a nearby church is a front for scientific equipment. After the church is raided and the shantytown bulldozed, Nada retrieves a box of sunglasses from the churchs wall, wearing one pair and hiding the rest in an alley dumpster. The sunglasses reveal a hidden reality: media and advertising hide omnipresent subliminal commands to obey, consume, reproduce, and conform, while many of the elite are actually humanoid aliens with grotesque faces. When Nada confronts an alien woman, she alerts others via a wristwatch communicator. Two alien police confront Nada, but he kills them and goes on a shooting spree with their guns, killing aliens in a nearby bank while one uses its wristwatch to vanish; Nada spares a human police officer. Nada escapes, taking Cable 54 assistant director Holly Thompson hostage. She rejects his claims and pushes him through the window of her luxurious hill-top home before calling the police; Nada escapes, but loses his sunglasses in the fall. Now a fugitive, Nada returns to the alley and retrieves the box of sunglasses from a garbage truck. Frank meets Nada to give him his paycheck. Frank also disbelieves Nada, but Nada forces a pair of sunglasses onto his face after an extended street fight. Accepting what he has now seen, Frank goes into hiding with Nada. They learn of a secret meeting for anti-alien activists, where they are given contact lenses to replace the sunglasses. The aliens control Earth as they have other planets in the past; they deplete each planets resources and destroy its environment before moving on to others. If the source of the aliens broadcast signal can be destroyed, all of humanity will see the hidden reality. Holly arrives to join the cause, apologizing to Nada. The meeting is raided by police, who kill several anti-alien activists; Nada and Frank use a stolen alien wristwatch to escape through a portal, entering the aliens secret command center. Nada and Frank discover a banquet celebration of aliens and human collaborators, one of whom (a former shantytown resident) gives them a tour of the facility, assuming they are also collaborators. Nada and Frank exit into the basement of Cable 54, the source of the signal. They fight their way through the building to the roof where the alien transmitter is disguised as a satellite dish. They encounter Holly, who joins them but then murders Frank; she is a collaborator. Nada kills Holly and destroys the transmitter, but is fatally wounded by aliens in a helicopter. With the signal destroyed, humans all over the world discover the aliens in their midst.
They Live
1988