A family of con artists led by "Colonel" Anthony "Sahib" Carleton (Roland Young) and his wife "Marmy" (Billie Burke) are working the French Riviera in search of wealthy potential mates for their daughter George-Anne (Janet Gaynor) and son Richard (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.). Sahib, a former actor, passes himself off as an officer who served with the Bengal Lancers in India. George-Anne flirts with her Scottish suitor, Duncan Macrae (Richard Carlson), whom she dismisses when she learns that he is not rich. Richard has managed to get himself engaged to the wealthy, but rather plain Adela Jennings. Meanwhile, Sahib cheats her American senator father out of a large sum of money at poker. The local police find out about the Carleton family, provide them with complimentary train tickets to London, courtesy of Mr. Jennings, and order them to leave the country. On the train, George-Anne meets a lonely old spinster named Miss Ellen Fortune (Minnie Dupree), who inherited a fortune from her former fiancé, with whom she had quarreled in her youth. The kindhearted Miss Fortune invites George-Anne and her family to her first-class compartment, and the penniless family eagerly accepts, hoping to swindle her out of some of her money. While Miss Fortune treats them to dinner, the train derails, and they manage to extricate the old woman from the wreckage. Grateful for their actions, she invites them to stay with her at her London mansion. Seeing an opportunity to make their way into Miss Fortunes will, they treat her with kindness and spend evenings with her. Sahib and Richard also go out looking for jobs in order to persuade both her and her suspicious lawyer, Felix Anstruther (Henry Stephenson), that they can be trusted. Meanwhile, Duncan looks up George-Anne, whom he still loves, despite her repeated rejections and her familys continued shady activities. He finds Sahib a job as a Flying Wombat car salesman. The initially reluctant colonel is soon applying his con artist skills so successfully that he is promoted to manager of the London branch. Richard also takes a job, as a mail clerk at an engineering firm when he sees lovely Leslie Saunders (Paulette Goddard) working there. She is also attracted to him, despite his completely frank admissions about his flawed character. Soon he is planning to take night courses in engineering. Gradually the two men begin to find the value of honest work and start to feel guilty about taking advantage of Miss Fortune. George-Anne and Marmy also honestly care about the old woman, but all four believe the others are still only after the inheritance. Miss Fortune eventually learns about the Carletons background from Anstruther, her lawyer, but she reacts with great compassion. She informs George-Anne that she is going to have a new will written, leaving everything to the Carletons. At a dinner party, Miss Fortune collapses, leaving the family legitimately concerned for the health of the woman who has changed all of their lives. Gathered in worried watch outside her sick room, they dismiss Anstruthers news that her fortune has diminished and they will inherit nothing. Marmy, in her grief, exclaims they do not want her money. Anstruther then informs them she will even lose her house. Marmy, Sahib and Richard retort she will never lack for a home or their care, much to Anstruther and George-Annes surprise. Sometime later, a recovered Miss Ellen drives Anstruther uncomfortably fast in her Flying Wombat to the Carletons house, where she now lives. George-Anne is married to Duncan, and Richard to Leslie.
The Young in Heart
1938