Jay Baruchel arrives in Los Angeles to visit old friend and fellow Canadian actor Seth Rogen, who invites him to attend a housewarming party hosted by James Franco. Jay is uncomfortable at the crowded party, so Seth accompanies him to a convenience store for cigarettes, but beams of blue light come down and suck numerous people into the sky. Seth and Jay flee back to Francos house, only to find the party unharmed. An earthquake strikes and the partygoers rush outside, but Michael Cera, one of them who was high on cocaine, gets impaled by a lamppost and a large hole opens in James yard, swallowing himself and most of the other partygoers. Seth, Jay, James, Jonah Hill, and Craig Robinson survive, run back inside the house, learn that the biggest earthquake has struck Los Angeles on the news, take inventory of their supplies, set up a ration system, board up the house and await help. The next morning, Danny McBride, also in the house and unaware of the crisis, wastes most of the food and water in the house. The others tell him of the previous nights events, which he initially does not believe until a man outside is decapitated as they watch. Tensions rise due to various conflicts, including Jay and Seths growing estrangement, and the others skepticism of Jays belief that the disaster might be the Apocalypse predicted in the Book of Revelation. Later, Emma Watson, another survivor of the party, returns. However, due to a misunderstanding, she believes the group is planning to rape her and leaves, taking the groups remaining drinks with her. Craig is chosen to travel outside to the basement for water, but finds the door is locked and returns after an encounter with an unknown being. Jay and Seth reach the basement by digging through the floor and find the water, but Danny ends up wasting most of it out of spite, prompting him to be kicked out of the house. Before he leaves, Danny reveals that Jay was in town two months ago, but he stayed at the Four Seasons and told Danny not to tell Seth, due to their strained friendship. After he leaves, Jonah gently chastises Jay, causing him to punch Hill, giving him a nasty nosebleed. Later that night, Jonah prays to God to kill Jay due to his immense hatred of him, but he gets raped and possessed by a demon. The next day, Jay and Craig go to a neighboring home for supplies and escape a demonic bull. Meanwhile, Seth and James are attacked by the possessed Jonah, but Jay and Craig arrive in time to knock him out. The group subdues Jonah and tie him up, but during an exorcism attempt, Jay and Seth get into a fight and knock a candle over. A fire starts, engulfing Jonah and the house in flames and forcing the others to flee outside. James suggests taking his car to his home in Malibu, but finds the car guarded by a demon. Craig volunteers to sacrifice himself and is raptured into Heaven. They are then captured by a group of cannibals led by Danny and his gimp, Channing Tatum. James volunteers to sacrifice himself to save the others, but taunts and flips Danny off as he ascends to Heaven, causing the beam to vanish. Danny warns James that he was being petty for not going to Heaven and joins the cannibals to eat him alive. Seth and Jay escape and encounter Satan. Jay apologizes to Seth for his actions and as Satan attempts to eat them, a beam strikes Jay and he begins to ascend while Seth does not. Jay grabs Seths hand, but his presence prevents him from ascending into Heaven. Seth lets go as a result, and another beam strikes him and slices off Satans crotch and he and Jay both finally ascend to Heaven where they meet Craig, who tells them that it is a place where any desire comes true. Jay wishes for the Backstreet Boys and the band performs "Everybody (Backstreets Back)" as everyone dances.
This Is the End
2013