Richard Herald (Lauritz Melchior) is a famous opera singer and father to Richard Herald II, who has recently returned from fighting in the war and now prefers to be known as Dick Johnson (Johnnie Johnston). Dick has been engaged to socialite Frances Allenbury (Mary Stuart) since before he left for the war, but has been expressing some apprehension about marrying her. Mr. Herald wants his son to join him at the opera company, but Dick wants to enjoy his life now that he’s out of the army. Backstage at the theater, he sees a magazine featuring Leonora "Nora" Cambaretti, an aquacade star. Earlier, as it turns out, after Dick received an injury during the war, he stayed at a hospital where Leonora performed for the patients. Dick had yet to have his bandages removed from his eyes and head, so he couldn’t see Nora. Other servicemen described her beauty to him, as her family’s friend, Ferdi Farro (Jimmy Durante), played on the piano. Thinking he was blind, Nora allowed Dick to touch her face and then kissed him, only to then find out that he was able to see. Nora is now performing as the star of the Aqua Capers show. Dick surprises her there, and he reminds her of their previous meeting by giving her a quick kiss, getting his nose twisted as punishment. Nora knows Dick is there to flirt, but she offers him a job with the show, but Ferdi convinces his friend Xavier Cugat to give Dick a position as a baritone at his nightclub.  After an Aqua Capers performance, Dick and Nora go to dinner. Ferdi reminds her that she barely knows anything about Dick. At rehearsal the next day, Nora says before she can fall in love, Dick must pass inspection from her family back on Mackinac Island. Dick leaves with Nora while Francess mother, Harriet, meets with Richard and agrees to announce their childrens engagement, unbeknownst to Dick. On the island, Dick meets Nora’s grandmother (May Whitty) and niece, Deborah (Sharon McManus), who warm up to him after he sings Grandmother’s favorite song, "(I’ll be with You) In Apple Blossom Time". and Nora’s grandmother grants her approval of Dick for Nora. A bit later, Dick leaves to tell his father about his relationship with Nora and break off the engagement to Frances, which Dick has not told Nora about. Gordon finds the engagement announcement in the newspaper and shows it to Ferdi. Ferdi tell Nora about it, and she is heartbroken. Gordon arranges for her to stay somewhere Dick cant find her. Six weeks later, Mr. Herald arrives at an Aqua Capers rehearsal in an attempt to find Nora, but Ferdi will not tell him where she is. Ferdi goes to Xavier Cugat’s club to see Dick, who accuses Ferdi of being in love with Nora as well.  Meanwhile, summer arrives on Mackinac Island and tourists are flocking there. Cugat’s band has a contract to perform at the Grand Hotel, and Dick goes with them. Deborah, knowing that Nora (traveling with Gordon and Ferdi) has arrived by boat, hurries to the hotel and notifies Dick, who loads Deborah onto her bicycle and together they ride to the Cambaretti house to speak with Nora. This trip, Nora has brought Gordon for her grandmothers approval. Dick and Deborah walk in, and Dick tries to explain all that has happened. Nora remains confused and upset and rejects him, so he leaves. Nora and Deborah both start to cry and flee upstairs, where Ferd overhears them. He invites Mr. Herald to the island, where he apologizes to Grandmother Cambaretti for placing the announcement in the newspaper. He also recognizes her from her old days as a performer in the circus. The two decide that their children should be married and come up with a way to push the two together. While Nora is at the swimming pool of the hotel, teaching Deborah to dive and swim, Dick begins singing "Easy to Love" with Cugats female vocalist, which makes Deborah jealous. That night, Nora decides she is going to go after Gordon, but Ferdi convinces her otherwise. Mr. Herald takes Grandmother to listen to Dicks performance at the hotel, where he convinces Cugat to fire his son and then begins to sing for the audience. He stops singing "La donna è mobile" and begins "Easy to Love", during which Dick gets up and sits next to Nora, where they hold hands and snuggle.
This Time for Keeps
1947