Marcy Lewis is a young woman from Indiana with an ambition to become an airline stewardess and see the world. She takes an American Airlines training course and passes. Her first flight is nearly her last when, after inadvertently offending the pilot, Mike Jamison, she forgets the passengers food. Mikes intervention earns Marcy a second chance. Marcys home base is moved to Los Angeles and she finds an apartment with one friend from stewardess school. She meets a passenger, Mike Lawrence, who is a graduate research student in science, then also nearly loses her job again by permitting a young passenger to keep her dog in the cabin, against the airlines rules. Marcy is suspended for a week. When a man named Mike Tracy helps give her stalled car a push, Marcy learns that he works for a Chicago advertising agency. An idea of hers, to let stewardesses endorse soap, pleases Tracys client, and soon Marcy is invited by a photographer to pose for magazine ads herself. When all three show up to help Marcy move into her new bungalow she is now sharing with three of her friends from stewardess training, she tries to keep the Mikes straight. Marcy names her male companions, Mike for Mike Tracey, Mikey for Mike Lawrence and Michael for Mike Jamison. All of them are jealous of each other and vie for Marcys attention. During a party later at her bungalow, Marcy is called away when her photographer requests one more picture to send out with the rest of the ad campaign for approval. Marcy finds herself dressed in a very short sarong, totally unlike the regulation company uniform in which all the other pictures were taken. The photographer also is only interested in fixing her a drink and having her relax on the cushion placed on the floor which is part of the props. She objects strenuously, but he is not hearing her. The three Mikes arrive in time to start a brawl, which makes the newspapers and gets both Marcy and her pilot friend suspended from their jobs, as well as costing Mikey his account. Mikes job as a graduate research student and consideration for a special fellowship award for an outstanding scientist, is in jeopardy. The award would get him a teaching position at the college, and allow him to continue his research there as well. Marcy goes to the superiors of all three men personally to plead for their reinstatement. After she is successful, all three Mikes propose marriage to her. Not positive what to do, Marcy reacts favorably to Mike Lawrences "I love you," and the other two Mikes concede that he is the guy for her.
Three Guys Named Mike
1951