The three men – Peter, Michael, and Jack – are living happily together with Mary, who is now five, and her mother, Sylvia. Peter and Michael continue their careers as an architect and cartoonist, while Jack has very few acting roles. Sylvia has become a famous actress and is dating her director Edward who wishes to marry her, but Sylvia is unsure how it will effect Mary. Sylvia and Peter are clearly in love with each other, Peter has difficulty admitting his true feelings. Sylvias visiting mother advises her daughter that Peter may never be able to properly express or admit his true feelings. Sylvia, realizing she wants to get married and start a real family, accepts Edwards marriage proposal and announces to the group she and Mary will be moving to the United Kingdom after the wedding. The group invites Edward to a get together at the apartment. Peter tells Edward that he has no experience with children and believes he wont be a good father for Mary. When Edward leaves, Sylvia confronts Peter about his behaviour, leading to a falling out when Sylvia tells Peter he is selfish and Peter reminds Sylvia about abandoning Mary (first film). Sylvia and Mary leave the next day for the UK. This depresses Peter, Michael and Jack, who attempt to cheer themselves by renewing their bachelor lifestyle and throwing a party, but still find themselves miserable without Mary or Sylvia. The gang decides to go to the UK to visit Mary, who is miserable and lonely without them. Peter and Michael (Jack plans to fly over later) are reunited with Mary and Sylvia at the rehearsal dinner. Peter is introduced to Miss Elsepth Lomax, headmistress of Pileforth Academy for Girls, who takes a liking to Peter. Edward leads her to believe that Peter has feelings for her, but has difficulty admitting them. Peter and Sylvia reconcile, apologizing for their previous behaviour. With the wedding fast approaching, Peter is troubled to hear Mary reveal that Edward dislikes her. Peter and Michael realize that Edward intends to pack Mary off to the Pileforth boarding school, but Edward denies everything and Sylvia refuses to believe Peter, knowing he has disliked Edward from the beginning. In the middle of the argument, Jack arrives and Sylvia and Edward leave. Jack confronts Peter about his true feelings for Sylvia, and Peter finally admits he always expected Jack and Sylvia would reconcile and he ultimately would have caused everyone to get hurt. Jack assures Peter that Sylvia loves only him and he must be true to his feelings. The day of the wedding, Peter goes to Pileforth in an attempt to get proof of Edwards scheme. Miss Lomax believes Peter is finally admitting his "feelings" for her and attempts to seduce him, but Peter manages to get away. When his car breaks down, he calls Jack and Michael, confirming he has the proof, but he will be delayed. Michael, Jack and Mary conspire to stall the wedding. Michael kidnaps the vicar and Jack disguises himself as an elderly replacement. Peter, with help from Miss Lomax, heads to the wedding and during the ride, she confesses Edwards informed her of Peters affections. Peter reveals that Edward made it all up, but apologizes for the misunderstanding. Peter and Miss Lomax arrive at the church after numerous delays. He confronts Sylvia with the truth, Miss Lomax herself confirming that Edward has been lying. Edward admits the truth but states it is too late as they are already married. Jack then reveals himself – not only has he finally proved his acting skills, but the marriage is null and void. Edward reveals his true colors when he calls Mary a "little shit" to her face and Peter in turn punches him. Sylvia declares her intention to go home, but Peter stops her and declares his love. They wed with Mary as their bridesmaid.
Three Men and a Little Lady
1990