Cynthia Glenn (Esther Williams) is a swimming instructor in Los Angeles, California, where she lives with her scatterbrained aunt and uncle Nona and Hobart (Spring Byington and Henry Travers). While demonstrating a dive, she catches the eye of an interested stranger, Bob Delbar (Carleton G. Young). Cynthia receives flowers from the stranger. The two court for one month, then get married. On their honeymoon at the hotel Monte Belva, they encounter the famous opera singer, Nils Knudsen (Lauritz Melchior). Major Thomas Milvaine (Van Johnson), also staying at the hotel, notices Cynthia. A rich colleague, J. P. Bancroft, insists that Bob come to Washington, D.C. to complete a deal. While Cynthia cries over Bobs departure, Tommy, staying next door, comforts her. Next day by the pool, she and Bancrofts daughter, Maude (Frances Gifford) speculate as to which hotel guest is Major Thomas Milvaine, the decorated war hero, who shot down "16... or was it 26 war planes?" and was stuck on a deserted island for a month. After Maude teases Cynthia about being at the hotel without her husband, Cynthia performs an elaborate dive and runs into Major Milvaine himself, who cant actually swim, so she teaches him how.  For the rest of the week, Cynthia and Tommy continue accompanying each other to dinner and other activities around the hotel, including swimming. On the last day, Cynthia receives a telegram from Bob informing her that he cant return for another week. Tommy is leaving the next morning, and Cynthia is distraught, so she retires to her room. Tommy realizes he loves her, rushes to their adjoining balcony, confesses his love and that he will stay for another week. Cynthia reiterates that shes a married woman, and therefore wont let him hop over the hedge separating their two balconies and make love to her. She calls Bob and begs him to return, but he cant. Cynthia looks for Tommy the next morning, but is told that he has checked out She goes for a walk on the Sunset Trail. Tommy sets off after her on the trail. Bob telephones the hotel and leaves a message that he will arrive the following morning. Tommy and Cynthia spot a tree with initials engraved on it. Cynthia tells Tommy that she loves him but wants to give her marriage a chance, so they should never see each other again. However, they lose their way and are forced to spend the night in the woods. The next morning, Bob cant find his wife in the hotel. When they do return, Tommy tries to explain their disappearance, while Bob realizes that the two are in love. He becomes angry with Cynthia, and announces he wants an annulment. Bob calls his lawyer, learning he was never actually divorced from his previous wife. Tommy leaves to become an instructor at Darwin Field, and Cynthia returns home to her aunt and uncle. Nils Knudsen telephones Tommy, and the two go to Cynthias house late at night, where they serenade her. Tommy lip-synches Knudsens voice to a love song to Cynthia. She runs outside to Tommy, and the two share a kiss while Knudsen continues singing, leaving Nona, and a bemused Hobart, to wonder how Tommy can sing and kiss at the same time.
Thrill of a Romance
1945