The plot of the two cartoons are very similar. When Porky and Daffy Duck realize that they overslept to 10:00 after their alarm goes off at 06:00, they end up rushing to work at the Fly By Night Aircraft Co. and sneaking in. When it came to clocking in, Daffy ends up turning the clock backwards two hours earlier and clocks in only for the alarm to go off. Their boss (a caricature of Clampetts immediate boss, production manager Ray Katz) catches them and in a cheerful manner, states that if they werent going to make it, he wouldve sent their work to them. He then drops his friendly facade and angrily warns them that if they are late one more time, theyll be fired. Then he orders them to get to work, to which they dash into their office and close the door so fast that the sign on the door shatters. Later that night at 08:00, Porky Pig sets the alarm clock as Daffy complains about having to go to bed early. Porky reminds Daffy that if they are late again, theyll get canned. Porky climbs into bed and they both fall asleep until a bunch of cats and dogs next door wake them up. Later that night, the moon comes out and its light wakes up Porky. One of Porkys attempts to close the blind ends up wrecking his bed. This also disturbs Daffy who ends up shooting the moon, which then falls as a result. ("Unbelievable, isnt it?") As the night progresses, a thunderstorm occurs while Porky is sleeping in Daffys bed. Porky closes the window only for a leak in the roof to disturb him and Daffy. Daffy opens an umbrella in the house with Porky telling him that its bad luck. Daffy ignores Porkys statement until lightning destroys the umbrella. When Daffy quotes that he should try sleeping under Niagara Falls, a lot of water comes through the roof and down on them. The next morning, Porky and Daffy are shown sleeping in the drawers when the alarm clock goes off at 06:00. They get themselves ready and drive off to work. When Porky and Daffy arrive at the Fly By Night Aircraft Co., they see a sign on the door that says "Closed Sunday." Porky states that they dont have to work today, to which Daffy boxes himself ("Now he tells me!") before they drive home. When they climb back into the drawers to sleep, the alarm clock goes off again at 06:15. It gets shot by Porky, falls over and dies.
Tick Tock Tuckered
1944