The Tiny Toon Adventures characters leave for their summer vacations after their term at Acme Looniversity ends. Babs and Buster Bunny have a water pistol fight, which eventually escalates into their flooding Acme Acres. The bunnies, along with Byron Basset, float from flooded Acme Acres down to the Southern United States, where they continuously avoid getting eaten by the rivers residents. Plucky Duck joins Hamton J. Pig and Hamtons family as they drive to the amusement park HappyWorldLand. The trip turns out to be very long and painful for Plucky, who becomes annoyed with the familys habits and is almost killed by an escaped convict that the Pigs mistake for a hitchhiker. They eventually arrive at HappyWorldLand, only to simply ride the tour monorail around the park and then immediately decide to head back home, much to Pluckys dismay. Meanwhile, Elmyra Duff becomes upset after losing her cat Furrball. When her family visits a nature park, she tortures the zoo animals with her adoration. Fifi Le Fume spends time with film actor Johnny Pew, who is uninterested in Fifi. Fowlmouth and Shirley the Loon see Skunknophobia. Fifi and Johnny attend the same film. Fowlmouth continuously talks through the film and is thrown out of the theater. Fifi gets annoyed when Johnny takes her photograph of him and signs it for another girl, Bimbette, after she wraps and teases him with her tail. Fifi kicks Johnny out of the theater, causing him to end up with Elmyra (still wearing The Cheetahs fur she got at the zoo earlier) and becoming her new "kitty". After realizing they are the main course at a dinner theater on a showboat, Babs and Buster escape with the help of Byron. They are chased down by the hungry animals they met throughout their journey, but are rescued by a possum Buster had befriended earlier. The escaped convict returns and tries to kill them as well; Buster, Babs, Byron and the possum try to escape using a mine cart and the escaped convict falls off a cliff. The four end up falling down a "plot hole" which leads them through Wackyland and back to Acme Acres. The film ends with the characters return to the Looniversity for the fall semester of school.
Tiny Toon Adventures: How I Spent My Vacation
1992