In the summer of 1940, world-weary Harry Morgan (Humphrey Bogart) operates a small fishing-boat, the Queen Conch, in Fort-de-France, on the French colony of Martinique. It is not long since the fall of France and the island is controlled by pro-German Vichy France. Harry makes a modest living chartering his fishing boat to tourists, along with his unofficial mate Eddie (Walter Brennan). Eddie is Harrys close friend and one time trusted co-worker, but he has of late succumbed to heavy drinking. The island is a tinder-box of dissent, harboring many people sympathetic to Free France. At his hotel home, hotel owner Gérard (Marcel Dalio) (known as "Frenchy" to English speakers) urges Harry to help the French Resistance by smuggling some people off the island. Harry steadfastly refuses, choosing to keep aloof from the current political situation. Also at the hotel, he meets Marie ("Slim") Browning (Lauren Bacall), a young American wanderer who has recently arrived in Martinique. An accomplished singer, she sings "How Little We Know" with pianist Cricket (Hoagy Carmichael) in the hotel bar. Harrys current charter client, Johnson (Walter Sande), owes Harry $825. Johnson insists he hasnt enough ready money, but promises to get the funds when the banks open the next day. In the hotel bar, Harry notices Slim pick Johnsons pocket and he later forces her to hand over the wallet. On inspection the wallet is found to contain $1,400 in travelers cheques and a plane ticket for early the next morning (before the banks are open). On returning the wallet to Johnson, Harry demands that Johnson sign the travelers cheques to pay him immediately. But just then, there is a shootout in front of the hotel between police and the Resistance, and Johnson is killed by a stray bullet. The police take Harry and several others for questioning, and seize Harrys passport and money. Back at the hotel, Gérard offers to hire Harry and his boat for one night to transport Resistance members Paul de Bursac (Walter Surovy) and his wife Hélène (Dolores Moran). Now effectively penniless, Harry reluctantly accepts Gérards offer. Meanwhile, a romance has been developing between Harry and Slim, the latter of whom feels that Harry changed his mind about the smuggling to help her out. Her suspicions are bolstered by the fact that Harry has used some of the money he earned in transporting the fugitives to buy her a plane ticket back to America. Harry picks up the de Bursacs, but his boat is seen and fired upon by a navy patrol boat. His passenger Paul de Bursac is wounded, but Harry manages to escape by turning the Queen Conch into a fogbank. On returning to the hotel, he learns that Slim has not used the ticket he purchased for her and instead has stayed in Martinique to be with him. The de Bursacs are hiding in the basement of the hotel and at Frenchys request, Harry removes the bullet from Pauls shoulder. He learns that the couple have come to Martinique to help a man with the Free French escape from the penal colony at Devils Island. De Bursac asks for Harrys assistance in this operation, but Harry respectfully turns him down. The police return to the hotel and reveal that they recognized Harrys boat the previous night. They also reveal they have Eddie in custody. Exploiting his addiction to alcohol, they plan to withhold liquor until he reveals the details of the smuggling plot. His friend in custody and his back against the wall, Harry decides to act. With Slims help, Harry turns the tables on the police. He holds Vichyite Police Captain Renard (Dan Seymour) at gunpoint and forces him to order Eddies release and sign harbor passes. When Eddie returns, Harry, Eddie, the de Bursacs, and Slim all escape on the Queen Conch, Harry having agreed to help the de Bursacs with their mission.
To Have and Have Not (film)
1944