David Kinemon, youngest son of West Virginia tenant farmers, longs to be treated like a man by his family and neighbors, especially Esther Hatburn, the pretty girl who lives with her grandfather on a nearby farm. However, he is continually reminded that he is still a boy, "tolable" enough, but no man. David eventually gets a chance to prove himself when outlaw Iscah Hatburn and his sons Luke and "Little Buzzard", distant cousins of the Kinemons Hatburn neighbors, move into the Hatburn farm, against the will of Esther and her grandfather. Esther initially tells David not to interfere, saying he is no match for her cousins. Later, the cousins kill Davids pet dog and cripple his older brother while the latter is delivering mail and taking passengers to town in his hack. Out of a sense of honor, Davids father intends to visit vigilante justice on the Hatburn cousins rather than rely on the local sheriff, but is prevented by an abrupt and fatal heart attack. David is determined to go after the Hatburns in his fathers place, but his mother pleads with him, arguing that he will surely die and that with his father dead and brother crippled, the household, including his brothers wife and infant son, depends on him. The now fatherless Kinemon family is turned out of the farm and are forced to move into a small house in town. David asks for his brothers old job of driving the hack, but is told he is too young. However, he does find work at the general store tugh. Later, when the hacks regular driver is fired for drunkenness, David finally has a chance to drive the hack. He loses the mailbag near the Hatburn farm, where it is found by Luke. David goes to the Hatburn farm to demand the mailbag. He is refused and gets into an argument with the cousins, during which he is shot in the arm. David then shoots Iscah and the younger son and later, after a prolonged fight with the older brother (meant to recall the story of David and Goliath), emerges victorious. Esther flees for help and makes it to the village, telling that David has been killed. As a crowd prepares to go look for David, he arrives in the hack with the bag of mail, badly injured, and collapses. It is clear to all that David, no longer merely "tolable", is a real man and a hero.
Tol'able David
1921