Tom walks onto the stage, ready to conduct a cat orchestra to the overture to "Die Fledermaus." Jerry emerges from his mouse hole and rushes to the podium to try to take over from Tom. Tom tries to whack Jerry with his baton, but Jerry continues to conduct the music from Toms baton. Tom then stuffs Jerry into his suit, but Jerry pops out from Toms sleeves. After Jerry pops out of Toms dickie, Tom stretches Jerry on his baton and catapults him onto a harp. Jerry then offers to dance the Du und du with Tom. After they dance together, Jerry sends Tom spinning into a cello, where he is "strung" by the cello player. Tom then gets his revenge and tricks Jerry into dancing with him before walloping Jerry and hurling him into a sousaphone, where he is "squirted" by the sousaphone player. Tom and Jerry continue to try to one-up the other and win the right to conduct the orchestra. When Jerry pleads Tom to let him conduct the orchestra, Tom uses his baton as a snooker cue to knock Jerry off the podium before using Jerrys baton as a toothpick and throwing it away. Jerry retaliates by snapping Toms baton in half, only for Tom to produce a spare baton from his pocket and stick his tongue at Jerry. Jerry, fed up, uses a hammer to put nails into some wheels onto the podium and pushes it (with Tom still on it) out of the amphitheatre and onto the road, where an unaware Tom is flattened by a passing bus. Tom, returning with his suit ripped and his eyes blackened, grabs Jerry and dangles him between two cymbals, which are bashed together, flattening Jerry. A flat and almost transparent Jerry floats down to the floor and pops back to his full size and structure. Enraged and deciding to sabotage the concert, Jerry grabs a saw and saws underneath the floor of the entire orchestra, causing the feline members of the orchestra to fall and disappear under the floor. Tom is left aimlessly running around to play the instruments until Jerry finishes conducting the symphony. As expected, Jerry takes all applause and credit for himself, and then points to the "One-man orchestra" Tom, who is now exhausted. Then Tom manages to stand up and nod to the crowd before he also falls off through the floor like the feline orchestra.
Tom and Jerry in the Hollywood Bowl
1950