Emil Buckner (Skip Homeier), a young German orphan, comes to live in the United States with his American uncle (Frederic March). Although the American family reaches out to the boy, trying to make him part of their lives, he has been heavily indoctrinated in Nazi propaganda from his years in the Hitler Youth. His uncle is a "gently liberal university professor," while the young boy – even though he is an orphan with a father who was anti-Nazi – has become a parrot for the Third Reich, denouncing his late father as a traitor and being as nasty as possible to the professors Jewish fiancée (Field). Emils father, Karl Buckner, had died after being sent to a concentration camp for opposing the Nazi regime. His uncle, Mike Frame, holds Karl in the highest regard for his ideas, commitment to the ideas of universal peace, and his courage. The Nazis, however, have taught Emil that his father was a coward, a traitor to the state, and committed suicide. Emil believes the lies and mutilates a highly prized painting of his father. All the characters have their unique perspectives and reactions in response to Emils outlandish display of Third Reich sensibilities and most want to find the good in the boy- especially his loving and very tolerant cousin Pat (Joan Carroll). Emil, however, has other ideas, donning a Nazi armband soon after his arrival. Emil refuses to make friends, spouts propaganda he learned in the Hitler Youth, and seeks to act as a Nazi agent on enemy soil, even attempting to recruit the Frames German maid to his cause. Hes horrified to find out that hes going to be mixing with kids of all backgrounds that hes been taught are inferior and that his teacher, Leona Richards- soon to be his aunt- is a jew. He goes out of his way to mock a Polish boy and later ridicules the boy when he finds him hanging laundry. After first avoiding a fight, he pushes the boy into the mud from behind, and then slices the laundry line so that the clean linen will fall into the mud as well. When a shy girl sees what he has done he terrifies her into silence with the knowledge that her father is a prisoner of war in Germany, and threatens to have her father hurt. In an ironic moment, Emil is the one who exposes the incident to his teacher: unaware of the American custom of not squealing, he seeks to get his version on the record first and accuse others of lying. The resulting confrontation ends with Emil fleeing the school and scrawling anti-Semitic graffiti against his teacher, Miss Richards, on the sidewalk. Seeking to break the engagement between his teacher and his Uncle Mike, Emile finally provokes her into slapping him (by calling her a "Jewish tramp") and then attempts to manipulate his Aunt Jessie, whose jealousy of the relationship he had perceived, into an alliance to this purpose, but only forces her to confront her own guilt. Just before his birthday party is due to begin, Emils cousin- Mikes daughter, Pat- catches him trying to break into a desk where he hopes to find classified documents. Following her to the basement, he attacks her with a fire iron and leaves her badly injured before fleeing the house. His schoolmates eventually apprehend him and bring him home to face the police. Before their arrival, he provokes his Uncle Mike with another threat against Pat, and Leona Richards intervenes to keep Mike from killing him. Alone with Emil, Leona forces him to open one of his birthday presents. Seeing his cousin Pats thoughtful gift for him finally triggers Emils first experience of remorse and guilt. Leona urges Mike to offer compassion and understanding rather than send Emil away. As Emil confronts his feelings about his fathers death and his treatment at the hands of the Nazis, hope for redemption finally begins to appear and he remains with his new family.
Tomorrow, the World!
1944