Jonathan, a poor but honest lumberjack, lives in the forest with his loving wife Anne. One day, while chopping down a tree, the mystical forest queen appears before Jonathan and begs him to spare the tree as it is a home to a family of birds. As selling wood is his livelihood, Jonathan is initially reluctant, but after the queen demonstrates her magic powers, Jonathan agrees. In gratitude, the queen tells Jonathan she will grant Jonathan and his wife three wishes. Jonathan races home to tell Anne about the incredible encounter. Unfortunately, Jonathan and Anne accidentally squander the wishes while bickering over dinner. As they turn in for bed that night, they look over the second bedroom of their cottage, which is fully stocked with toys for the child they dearly wanted but were never able to have. Anne laments their previous squandering of their magic wishes, which they could have used to wish for a child, but Jonathan consoles her that the forest queen may yet show them kindness and grant them one more wish. Anne remarks that she would love any child they would have had "even if he was no bigger then her thumb." Later, they are roused by a soft knocking at the door and find before them a young boy who is literally the size of a thumb, who addresses Jonathan and Anne familiarly as "father" and "mother". Anne instinctively knows the boys name is Tom. In the following days, family friend Woody takes Tom into town where a carnival is being held. Tom is carried off by a balloon on to the top of the nearby castles treasury tower, where two thieves, Ivan and Antony, are conspiring to steal the gold. They realize that due to his size, Tom will easily be able to slip between the bars of the grill on the treasury roof and trick him into believing they need the gold to help poor orphans. As a reward for his assistance, Ivan gives Tom a single gold sovereign from the stolen loot. Tom returns home late at night, to find his parents distraught over his disappearance from the carnival. While he sneaks in through the window, he accidentally drops his sovereign into a cake his mother had been baking. By the next morning, the robbery has been discovered and guards are scouring the countryside searching for the thieves. A unit stops at Jonathans cottage to ask if he or Anne have seen anyone suspicious in the area. Anne offers the guards some cake and one guard bites into the slice containing the sovereign, instantly recognizing it as part of the stolen treasure. Jonathan and Anne are arrested and taken away to be flogged in the town square. With Woodys help, Tom tracks down the real thieves and, thanks to his ability to control animals, eventually manages to bring them back to the town square, along with their loot, thereby exonerating his parents. Ivan and Antony are arrested and the gold is returned to the treasury. The movie concludes with Woody marrying the forest queen, whom he has been clumsily romancing throughout the movie.
Tom thumb (film)
1958