Torchy Blane (Glenda Farrell) writes a series of articles criticizing the mayor John Saunders, accusing him of colluding with local crime boss Dr. Dolan (John Miljan) and Dolans illegal activities. Torchy is getting all her information straight from the mayors office, using a listening device. Torchys boyfriend, detective Steve McBride (Barton MacLane) is concerned about the articles, believing that they are placing her in danger. Dolan asks his allies to withdraw advertising from Torchys newspaper and pressure her editor into canceling her articles. Torchy is determined to prove that her articles are correct. She overhears Dolan telling the mayor about his "little red book" with all of his transactions and illegal payoffs and finds the book after breaking into Dolans house. Dolan reports the burglary to police and demand the return of his book. Torchy writers more article exposing Dolan, but her story is rejected by her newspaper editor, fearing more syndicate will pull advertising from the paper. She goes to all other newspapers, who all refused to print the story. When she encounters Hogarth Ward (Irving Bacon) the publisher of a small and relatively unknown newspaper. She decides to print the story herself and distributed the publication around the city with the help of Gahagan (Tom Kennedy). After Torchy revealed the mayors corruption, the resultant publicity forces a recall election with the citizens chose Hubert Ward as the new candidate running against the corrupt mayor. However, during the election, Hubert Ward is murder by Dolan with a fatal injection. Steve, who is annoyed at Torchys interference, writes her name as the new candidate as a joke. To his dismay, Torchy decides to run for mayor seriously and is winning voters. Dolans man kidnaps Torchy and drugged her. Steve threatens Dolan to no avail but found an address where he believes Dolan is keeping Torchy. Steve and Gahagan track down the house and fights Dolan and his man and saves Torchy. A half dozen policeman arrived at the house arresting them. Dolan manages to escape in Gahagans police car but is killed when the car explodes. Torchy wins the election but decided that she didnt want to be the mayor.
Torchy Runs for Mayor
1939