Torchy Blane (Jane Wyman) is covering a bank robbery, one of a series committed by Denver Eddie. Returning to her newspaper, Torchy is stopped by a policeman for speeding, because she doesnt have her drivers license with her, he takes her to court. While in court for her traffic ticket, Torchy encounters Jackie Maguire (Sheila Bromley) who is the girlfriend of notorious bank robber Denver Eddie and is sentenced to jail for shoplifting. After Torchys boyfriend, Lt. Steve McBride (Allen Jenkins) identifies her, Torchy is released. However, Torchy ask Steve to put her back in jail, after realizing that Jackie is Denver Eddies girlfriend. Torchy gets herself thrown into jail so that she can befriend Jackie and use her to get a lead on Eddie. Torchy has no luck with her plan until she helps subdue another prisoner who tries to stab Jackie. Jackie suggests that she and Torchy escape from jail. Steve agrees to cooperate with Torchys plan when she explains that the reward money for Eddies capture will enable them to get married. With the help and collusion of the police and her boyfriend Steve, she escaped the womens prison with Jackie to San Francisco, where Jackie is meeting her boyfriend. After Torchy and Jackie escapes, they are followed by Steve and his assistant Gahagan (Tom Kennedy). Steve hopes to capture Denver Eddie to collected the $5000 reward as a down payment for a house for him and Torchy. He decides not notify the local police of Eddies expected arrival, but his actions are so suspicious that the police think he and Gahagan are criminals. Jim Simmons (Edgar Dearing) a San Francisco policeman follows them, but Steve succeeds in convincing him that Gahagan is a wrestler and that he is his manager. Meanwhile, Torchy has arranged to signal Steve when Eddie arrives by hanging her stockings on the fire escape. Gahagan sees Jackie hang her stockings out to dry and they burst into the room, only to find that Eddie has not arrived yet. Torchy quickly makes up a story to explain their presence. When Eddie finally arrived, one of his men recognizes Steve as a policeman but pretended that Steve is another criminal. Steve, not knowing that they recognize him, invites Eddie to join him in robbing the wrestling stadium. Eddie agreed to the plan but arranged for his men to kidnap Steve on the way there. At the wrestling arena, another reporter recognizes Torchy and reveals her identity. After getting rid of Eddies men, Steve rushes to the arena where Gahagan, posed as a wrestler named Harry the Horse, gets thrown out of the ring just in time to land on Eddie who is trying to escape. Steve and Gahagan are credited with the arrest, and Torchy and Steve now have the money to marry.
Torchy Blane... Playing with Dynamite
1939