Jazz pianist Tom Stewart (Carlson), who lives in a Cape Cod island community, is preparing to marry his fiancée Meg Hubbard (Lugene Sanders). Shortly before the wedding, Toms old girlfriend Vi Mason (Juli Reding) visits and informs him that she will end his relationship with Meg, using blackmail if necessary. While shes arguing with him atop a lighthouse, the railing shes leaning on gives way. She manages to hang on briefly, but Tom refuses to help and watches her fall to her death. The next day, Tom sees Vis body floating in the water. After he retrieves her, the body turns into seaweed. He tries to forget what hes seen, but over the next few days, Vis watch washes up on the beach, strange footprints appear in the sand, Vis ghost appears and tells Tom that she will haunt him for the rest of his life, and when Megs little sister Sandy (Susan Gordon) asks to see the wedding ring Tom will give Meg, a disembodied hand makes off with it. Soon afterward, during a party for Tom and Meg, Vis disembodied hand appears in a photo a guest takes of the couple. Later, when Toms alone, Vi taunts him that shell now use her voice to tell the world how Tom Stewart killed her. To add to Toms dilemma, a ferry-driving beatnik comes looking for Tom, intent on collecting the $5 Vi owes him for her trip to the island. Toms haste to pay the fellow off causes the shifty man to stick around, and his attempts to blackmail Tom lead to his death. Unbeknownst to Tom, Sandy has inadvertently witnessed the murder. Sandy keeps quiet about what shes seen. At the wedding she almost speaks up at the point in the ceremony where the minister asks if anyone objects to the marriage, but before she can speak, the churchs front doors burst open and the flowers all to wilt as the candles die out, bringing the ceremony to an abrupt, unpleasant halt. Later that night, Tom goes to the lighthouse and tells Vi that hes leaving the island. When he finds Sandy listening in, he realizes that hes trapped: Sandy knows too much and could possibly tell Meg and the others. Desperately Tom leads Sandy up to the broken lighthouse railing with the intent to push her over, but Vis ghost swoops down on him, causing him to go over the edge as Sandy watches. When the islanders search for Toms body, the first one they find is Vis. Shortly afterward, Toms body is found and placed next to Vis body, which somehow manages to turn and lay its arm across his body. On Vis dead hand is the engagement ring that was supposed to be Megs, signaling that Tom is now stuck forever with Vi.
Tormented (1960 film)
1960