Semi-retired Mexican-American chef Martin Naranjo (Héctor Elizondo) shares a suburban Los Angeles home with his three adult daughters. Although he has lost the senses of smell and taste since his wifes death, he still cooks elaborate, multi-course meals for his family and friends. The women humor their fathers old-fashioned ways, but each is searching for fulfillment outside the family circle. Leticia (played by Elizabeth Peña), the oldest and most conservative of the three, is a repressed high school chemistry teacher who abandoned Catholicism to become a born-again Christian. Middle daughter Carmen (Jacqueline Obradors) shares her fathers passion for food but has stifled her dream of owning a restaurant in favor of pursuing a more stable career as a business analyst. Maribel (Tamara Mello), the youngest, is hip and slightly rebellious. Frequently present in the Naranjo home are newly divorced family friend Yolanda (Constance Marie), her young daughter April, and her visiting mother Hortensia (Raquel Welch), who has set her sights on Martin and is determined to make him her next husband, unaware his attention is focused on someone else. Maribel is drawn to handsome Brazilian student Andy after her co-worker rejects him and, after they briefly date, she invites him home for dinner, during which she blithely announces she is moving in with him, much to her fathers consternation and Andys shock, since they never had discussed elevating their somewhat casual relationship to this next level. Before long she is rearranging his small apartment and unintentionally making him increasingly uncomfortable as she imposes herself in his life. Meanwhile, Leticia finds herself attracted to Orlando Castillo, who coaches baseball at her school, when she begins to receive passionate love letters she believes are from him, unaware they actually were written by her students. Carmen is offered a high-profile job in Barcelona, and half-heartedly agrees to accept it, although soon after her father drives her to the airport she returns home, determined to follow in her fathers footsteps and open a restaurant of her own. Leticia and Orlando elope, Maribel and Andy break up and reunite, Martin marries Yolanda, and everyone gathers for a family meal at Carmens new restaurant.
Tortilla Soup
2001