Josh Kovaks is the building manager of The Tower, an upscale apartment complex in New York City. Its employees include Joshs brother-in-law, concierge Charlie Gibbs, who is expecting a child with Joshs sister; Enrique DevReaux, a newly hired elevator operator; Lester, the doorman nearing retirement; Odessa Montero, an immigrant maid from Jamaica threatened with deportation; and receptionist Miss Iovenko, who is studying to become a lawyer. One morning Josh witnesses what he believes is Arthur Shaw, The Towers penthouse tenant, being kidnapped. Josh gives chase, but is tackled by FBI agent Claire Denham, who explains that Shaw was actually attempting to flee the country and resist arrest for masterminding a Ponzi scheme, embezzling $2 billion. Josh confesses to the Tower staff that he gave their pensions to Shaw to invest, and they have lost everything; Lester attempts suicide by stepping in front of a train, but survives. After visiting Lester in the hospital, Josh, Charlie, and Enrique confront Shaw, under house arrest in his penthouse apartment. Shaw expresses condolences, but is not sincere enough when he forgets to ask if Lester is all right, and out of anger, Josh smashes the windows of the 1963 Ferrari 250 GT Lusso displayed in Shaws apartment. Joshs boss, Mr. Simon, fires him for his actions, as well as Charlie and Enrique, who were with him at the time of his actions. Josh meets Denham at a bar where she drunkenly suggests that Shaw has concealed $20 million as a reserve, and that Josh should steal it. Josh, Charlie, Enrique, and evicted Tower tenant Mr. Fitzhugh conspire to find and steal the money from Shaws assumed safe. They supplement their inexperience by enlisting Joshs childhood friend Slide, a petty criminal, and Odessa, who has locksmith experience that can help open the safe. Charlie is later rehired as the Towers new manager, and, uncomfortable with the plan, warns Josh to abandon it or Charlie will turn him over to the police. Subsequently, Denham informs Josh that Shaw is scheduled to attend court on Thanksgiving during the Macys Thanksgiving Day Parade to avoid publicity, and that Shaw will be set free. Josh and his team decide to break into Shaws apartment during the parade. Slide attempts to betray the team by reaching the safe first, having tricked Odessa into giving him lessons. The team intercepts him at Shaws apartment, and during the ensuing altercation, they break down a false wall, revealing Shaws safe, which turns out to be empty. Slide and Fitzhugh fight over Slides gun; the gun goes off and the bullet hits the car, revealing gold underneath the Ferraris paint. They realize that Shaw used his money to buy gold, turn it into car parts, and assembled the car to hide the money in plain sight. Later, Josh finds a ledger of Shaws illegal finances in the cars glove box. As they reach the lobby, Denham and Shaw return, revealing the Thanksgiving court date as a ruse. Denham notes the missing car and Shaws safe and, for violating his bail by not declaring the latter, has him remanded back into federal custody until his real court date. Denham and the FBI arrest Josh and the crew (except Slide) as they walk outside the Tower. Miss Iovenko arrives, telling the FBI that she passed her bar exam three days ago and is acting as Joshs attorney. She shows them Shaws ledger and tells them she will turn it over in exchange for everyones freedom. The FBI accepts on the condition that Josh, being the primary conspirator, must serve a minimal two-year sentence. Shaw pleads guilty and is sentenced to life imprisonment. The team retrieve the car and send various parts of it to Tower employees to compensate for their lost pensions. As Josh is led to his cell, a satisfied smile slowly forms on his face.
Tower Heist
2011