In Barranquilla, Colombia, terrorist Luis Cali (Andrew Divoff) has taken over the Palace of Justice with a ruthless team of mercenaries. He demands the release of his drug kingpin father, Enrique Cali, only to be told that his father has already been delivered to the United States for trial. They escape by helicopter and with the weapons and logistics assistance of Luis second-in-command, an American named Jack Thorpe, they enter the U.S. through Mexico. In the United States, the Regis High School is a prep school for teenage boys with wealthy and influential parents, half of whom have been expelled from other schools. A group of pranksters led by Billy Tepper (Sean Astin) that includes Joey Trotta (Wil Wheaton), Hank Giles (T.E. Russell), Ricardo Montoya (George Perez), Jonathan Bradberry (Keith Coogan), and Phil Donoghue (Knowl Johnson) is carefully watched over by their teachers and the stern but well-meaning Dean Parker (Louis Gossett Jr.). Phils father is the Federal Judge presiding over Enrique Calis trial, so the entire family is taken to a safe location as a precaution. Unaware of this, Luis Cali invades the school to capture Donoghue, killing the Campus Police, and a faculty member who interferes. Furthermore, they rig the campus with heavy firearms and remote-detonated explosives. With Phil nowhere to be found and the sons of numerous influential individuals in his grasp, Luis takes the entire school hostage. Underestimating the threat, the local Sheriff attempts to intervene but is repelled by fire from a .50 caliber M2 machine gun, although he and his deputies are able to fall back to safety. The State Police, FBI and US Army are called in, keeping their distance to avoid provoking the terrorists. Luis releases the school faculty except for the cooks and headmaster, Robert Gould (Denholm Elliott) but institutes hourly headcounts to keep track of the boys. The students, under Billys leadership, use their expertise in skirting authority to collect tactical information about the occupying forces, which Billy covertly brings to the authorities on the outside. They wont allow Billy to return, but with Parkers encouragement, he escapes and narrowly rejoins the students in time to be counted, preventing the killing of Gould and four students in response. Joeys father, New York mafia boss Albert Trotta arranges through Luis father for the boy to be released. Joey, contemptuous of his father, refuses to go. He steals a weapon and opens fire on another terrorist, but is killed. Luis tries to impress upon Parker, who comes to retrieve the body, that it was an accident, but Albert takes revenge by having Enrique Cali killed in prison. Knowing they must act before Luis can learn of his fathers death, the authorities undertake a rescue mission. FBI Hostage Rescue Team personnel (trailed by Parker), supported by the Army, covertly infiltrate the school and begin taking out terrorists. Meanwhile, Billy and his friends sabotage the detonator for the explosives, incapacitate several more terrorists with surprise attacks and lead the students and Gould to a secret basement chamber. Overwhelmed by the assault, in which most of the terrorists are killed, Luis takes Billy at gunpoint and holds him in Goulds office. Parker and commandos converge and kill Luis, then Dean being wounded in the process. The few remaining terrorists are subdued and the students are liberated.
Toy Soldiers (1991 film)
1991