In 17,000 B.C., the Seven Primes travel across the galaxy to create Energon with star-absorbing machines named Sun Harvesters. One of them, later known as The Fallen, defies their sole rule to never destroy planets hosting life by establishing a Sun Harvester on Earth. He is confronted by the other Primes, who imprison him before he can harvest the planets Sun using the Matrix of Leadership. The Primes then sacrifice themselves to hide the Matrix in an unknown location. In the present day, two years after Megatrons defeat, the Autobots and the U.S. military have formed the Non-Biological Extraterrestrial Species Treaty (NEST), a classified international task force, to eliminate the surviving Decepticons. In Shanghai, the Autobots intercept two Decepticons, Demolisher and Sideways. Sideways is killed by the Autobot Sideswipe, while Optimus Prime kills Demolisher, but not before he warns them of the Fallens return. At NESTs secure headquarters in Diego Garcia, National Security Adviser Theodore Galloway concludes the Decepticons are still on Earth to hunt the Autobots, since Megatrons corpse is at the bottom of the Laurentian Abyss and the last known AllSpark shard is secured in the base. Soundwave hacks into a military satellite, overhears the information, and sends Ravage to retrieve the shard. Meanwhile, Sam Witwicky is preparing to attend college, leaving his girlfriend Mikaela Banes and guardian Bumblebee behind. He finds a smaller AllSpark shard and picks it up, causing him to start seeing Cybertronian symbols. The shards energy pulse turns the appliances in the kitchen into murderous Transformers, who attack Sam and his family. After Bumblebee destroys the rampaging appliances, Sam gives the shard to Mikaela, who later captures the Decepticon Wheelie when he attempts to steal it. The Constructicons, upon discovering Megatrons location, travel to the Laurentian Abyss and resurrect Megatron using the stolen shard and parts torn off from one of their own allies. Megatron then travels to one of Saturns moons, where he reunites with his master, the Fallen, who orders him to capture Sam alive and kill Optimus, the only Transformer who can defeat the Fallen. Sam, Mikaela, and his college roommate Leo are attacked by Alice, a Decepticon Pretender posing as a college student. After killing her, they are captured by Megatron, Starscream, and the Decepticon Grindor, but Optimus and Bumblebee arrive and rescue the humans. Optimus fights Megatron, Starscream, and Grindor alone as Megatron reveals that the symbols in Sams mind will lead the Decepticons to a new Energon source. After killing Grindor, Optimus is killed by Megatron. The other Autobots arrive and repel Megatron and Starscream before they could recapture Sam. As Sam goes into hiding with Mikaela, Leo, Bumblebee, Wheelie, and the Autobot twins Skids and Mudflap, the Decepticons launch devastating simultaneous attacks around the world, destroying ships in the Second Fleet and damaging Paris. The Fallen hijacks Earths telecommunications systems, demanding that Sam be handed to him. Sam, Mikaela, and Leo enlist the help of former Sector Seven agent, Seymour Simmons, who reveals that the Transformers visited Earth eons ago and the most ancient, known as Seekers, remained on Earth, hiding in secret. With help from Wheelie, they track down a Decepticon Seeker named Jetfire at the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum. They use their shard to revive Jetfire, who teleports the group to Egypt and explains the story of the Fallen. Jetfire and Wheelie turn against the Decepticons, and order them to locate the Matrix, which could revive Optimus. Sams group finds the Matrix in Petra, but it disintegrates into dust in Sams hands. Undeterred, Sam stuffs the Matrixs remains into his sock. Meanwhile, NEST forces and the Autobots land near the Giza pyramid complex but are attacked by a large force of Decepticons. During the battle, many Constructicons combine to form Devastator, who destroys one of the pyramids to reveal the Sun Harvester inside, before he is killed by a destroyers railgun called in by Simmons. Ravage and the Decepticon Rampage attempt to spring a trap with Sams captured parents as bait, in order to force Sam to give them the Matrix, but Bumblebee interferes and kills them both. Major William Lennox and Master Sergeant Robert Epps call in an airstrike, which kills a majority of the Decepticon ground forces. However, Megatron manages to shoot Sam, seemingly killing him, before retreating upon getting attacked. Nearing his death, the Primes contact Sam through a vision, telling him the Matrix is earned, not found, and that he earned the right to bear it. They restore Sams life and the Matrix, which he uses to revive Optimus. The Fallen teleports to their location and steals the Matrix from Optimus, then returns to the pyramid with Megatron and activates the Sun Harvester. Jetfire, who was gravely wounded during the battle by Scorponok but did manage to kill his attacker, sacrifices himself in order to transplant his parts to Optimus, which give him immense strength and the ability to fly. Optimus knocks the Fallen and Megatron off the pyramid, destroying the Sun Harvester in the process. In the battle, Optimus disables Megatron and kills the Fallen; vowing vengeance, Megatron retreats with Starscream. The victorious Autobots and their allies then return to the United States.
Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen
2011