Required to travel to India for a year to oversee financial matters, English businessman Robert Maury (Paul Cavanagh) is in a quandary regarding his young wife. His older sister, Honora (Nance ONeil), suggest that he leave her at their country estate, where she can keep an eye on her. But his wife, Elsie (Kay Francis), is fearful of the boredom which may set in if she were to remain on the isolated property. Maury gives in to his wifes fears, and decides to allow her to move to Paris for the duration of his time on the sub-continent. In Paris, she falls under the guidance of the sophisticated Paula Vrain (Doris Lloyd), who begins to teach her how to fit into the decadent Parisian lifestyle. She quickly assimilates to her surroundings, and begins to attract attention from the men in her social sphere. One in particular, a Spanish nobleman named Don Arturo de Borgus (Ricardo Cortez), begins to pay her special attention. Elsie struggles to keep the relationship platonic, and as her husbands year-long absence draws to a close, she decides that the temptation has become too great. With Maurys return imminent, Elsie is convinced to attend one last party by Paula, who unbeknownst to Elsie is working on Don Arturos behalf. At the party the Spanish nobleman gives Elsies seduction one last-ditch attempt. And it is beginning to work. Arturo invites Elsie to spend the weekend at his estate in Spain. She is considering the offer when Maury shows up unexpectedly. He is dismayed by the changes in his wife. He had left an innocent behind, and now he has come back to a sophisticated, jaded woman. His dismay, coupled with their year-long separation, causes him to act cool towards her. It is this coolness which makes up her mind. When Maury requests that she return to England with him the next day, she defers, saying she wants to stay behind to say goodbye to the friends she has made while in Paris. After Maury leaves for England, she heads to Arturos. Once there, Arturo begins an all-assault to sexually seduce her. In this, he is abetted by his servant, Serafin (John St. Polis). As she weakens, before she will fully succumb, her conscious makes her write a letter to her husband in England, confessing everything. She gives the letter to Serafin to post for her, and is about to fully give in to Arturo, when a local peasant, Carlos (Agostino Borgato), appears and accuses Arturo of seducing and impregnating his young daughter, who died during childbirth. Furious, Carlos shoots and kills Arturo. Horrified at her almost tragic mistake, she realizes that she must intercept her confession before Maury has an opportunity to read it. Serafin claims that he has already written it, so Elsie determines to return to the English estate and intercept it there. Back in England, she waits day by day to head off the postman. Her furtive actions arouse the suspicions of Honora. When she discovers a news article regarding Arturos death, those suspicions are heightened, believing that Elsie might have been the unnamed woman mentioned in that article. When she accuses Elsie of infidelity in front of Maury, he defends his wife, leading to Honora deciding to finally leave the estate. It is shortly after that Serafina arrives, threatening to reveal Elsie and Arturos relationship to Maury, and claiming that he is carrying the confessional letter. Realizing that she loves her husband, she refuses to help in the plan to hurt him. When Serafin confronts Maury with the lurid details, he is disappointed, for Maury refuses to be outraged. Chastened, Serafin departs, and Maury accepts his wife back into his loving arms.
Transgression (1931 film)
1931