After a montage of photographs reveal that a young boy has died from exposure to toxic waste spilled by a company called NTX, the childs father bids goodbye to his wifes corpse, and heads for the Kupper-Dietz Building, a luxurious tower containing offices and laboratories owned by NTX. As the working day concludes, businesswomen Mary Ann Marshall and Renni are the last two daytime employees to leave the skyscraper, but on their way out they discover that all of the exits are sealed, and that all of the telephones are dead. While searching for aid, the pair spot an intruder, and rush to the security room, which they find abandoned, with signs of a violent struggle evident. The two are then attacked by the dead boys father; Renni is killed, but Mary Ann escapes by falling into an elevator, which brings her up to one of the towers unfinished condominiums. There, she meets John Doe, a corporate spy who has been secretly living in the building in order to steal industrial secrets from NTX. While John goes to investigate Mary Anns claims of there being a killer on the loose, Mary Ann, after another close encounter with the murderer, heads up to the penthouse apartment to seek aid from Harold Manley, the head of NTX; Mary Ann instead finds Manley dead, with newspaper articles about NTX stabbed into his chest. Mary Ann reunites with John, who had stumbled onto the bodies of a pair of murdered guards, and together the two go looking for the buildings remaining watchman, finding him just as he is fatally bludgeoned by the killer, who they narrowly evade. After Johns arm is broken in a subsequent run-in with the maniac, he and Mary Ann separate, with Mary Ann going into hiding in the parking garage. When the killer finds her, he and Mary Ann engage in a vehicular chase, during which the murderers car begins leaking fuel. John, who had been drawn to the garage by the noise, sets the spilled gas on fire, which blows the killers car up after he crashes it into Mary Anns. When the building comes out of automatic lockdown at 6:00am, John slips away. Mary Ann is treated by paramedics and questioned by the police, and returns home, where she is greeted by John.
Trapped (1989 film)
1989