Jerry Mouse is being chased down the steps by Tom Cat. Jerry hides under a chair and Tom runs under it, but gets smacked on the bottom with a board from Jerry. Jerrys mouse hole is then mined with dynamite, but unknowingly for Tom, Jerry has lit another firework under him, and both explode. Tom angrily continues the pursuit until Jerry offers him a fireplace shovel to hit him with. Tom misses several times and Jerry holds the tool down until Tom pulls on it so hard he hits himself when Jerry flees. Tom jumps into Jerrys hole, but his lips are ruffled and Tom has to pull himself out. Tom is tired of the chase and searches in the Yellow Pages for a pest control exterminator. He finds one for Ajax Mouse Exterminators, with the motto One Call - Thats All. Tom calls the company up impersonating Mammy Two Shoes and gets them to come over. Butch arrives (as the cat exterminator working for the "Ajax Mouse Exterminators") within seconds and goes to work. He paints a steel nut two shades of yellow so it looks like cheese, and tops it off with a blast of "Essence of Cheese". Butch rolls it into Jerrys hole. Jerry smells the nut and since it smells like cheese, eats it. Butch then attracts Jerry with a magnet, trapping the mouse. Butch pulls out an axe, holding Jerry down while he attempts to cleave the mouse in two. Not wanting to watch, Tom turns away. However, Butch accidentally hits Tom in a tail causing Tom to scream in pain. Butch then realizes Jerry substitutes Toms tail and escapes, so Butch chase him. Jerry runs into his hole and Butch pins him to a wall inside the hole with a brace. With nowhere to go, Jerry touches two electric wires to the brace, causing it to backfire onto Butch. Later, the two cats attempt to kill the mouse with poison gas. Jerry walks out with a gas mask on; the two cats are puzzled, but are unable to figure out his identity. Jerry salutes and the cats salute as if to say "Good day!" Tom returns to pumping gas, but Butch finds out that the little creature must be Jerry. He slaps Tom and points to Jerry removing his mask, taunting the cats and running off. Both cats chase him one behind the other, but fall victim to Jerry placing an iron in their path such that Tom falls into Butchs mouth. Jerry hides in another mouse hole and the two cats resort to prying up the entire wall with a crowbar. Jerry then slams Toms foot with a hammer, causing him to let go and leap away screaming in pain as the wall comes crashing down, crushing Butchs fingers. Jerry then plays "Yankee Doodle" on seven of Butchs fingers as a keyboard, slamming the hammer down with a sickening crunch on the last note and Butch releases his fingers. As Butch inspects his fingers, it turns red as they swell up and pop his nails open, releasing steam with a train whistle sound. Butch instructs Tom to keep quiet and hands him a sledgehammer while he sneaks in through a grate and chases Jerry through the walls of the house, doing significant damage. Jerry pops out of the hole and Tom swings as instructed, but hits Butchs head instead. Butch lights a bomb and the cats hide. Jerry sees it and throws it back. The cats and the mouse play Hot Potato with the bomb until Butchs hat falls off his head and it is mixed up. Jerry, instead of getting the bomb as intended, gets the hat, and Butch has the bomb on top of his head. Puzzled as to why Jerry is not planting the bomb on Butch again, the cats look up, only to be found as the bomb explodes. Jerry runs into one hole and comes out the other to find Butch on that side, then comes back out the other and finds Tom on that side. The two cats both grope and feel Jerry at the same time and grab for him just as the mouse jumps, leaving the two cats with hands held (though they are unaware of it). Both cats think they have Jerry and yank the other cat into the wall several times. Butch then pokes at Tom with a broom and Tom proceeds to pull Butch through the entire wall, demolishing it, all with the false impression that their hands are latched on to Jerry. Tom slaps the pile of brick and rock with a board until he sees an opening. He digs through the pile and finds Butchs hat, with a corner missing. As Tom tries to find Jerry in the hat, Butch revives and replaces the hat as he draws himself up, incensed at Tom and having enough of Jerry. Butch marks out the "MOUSE" in "MOUSE EXTERMINATOR" on his bag and replaces it with "CAT" (using his left paw). Tom realizes the title is changed into a cat exterminator and reads, "C-A-T, Cat". As Tom ponders the implications of this, Butch makes it clear with a gleaming, double-barreled shotgun out of his bag. Terrified, Tom dashes to the nearest window and crashes through it. Jerry rushes to the nearest window to watch as Butch chases after him and shoots him as the cartoon fades out and the chase continues.
Trap Happy
1946