While waiting to see the owner of the store who is potentially a new big client, Barry Greene, a traveling salesman, practices his sales pitch on Ellen Wilson. Unbeknownst to Barry, Ellen is the daughter of his potential client, J.C. Wilson. Her father, obsessed with business, has neglected his daughter. When she goes in to speak with her father, his usual lack of interest in her life causes her to decide to teach him a lesson by living a wild life. Angered by his daughter, when J.C. meets with Barry, he has no desire to listen to the salesman, and has him thrown out of the building. On his way out, Ellen offers him a ride to his hotel. En route, the two make a date for dinner that night. Back at the hotel, Barrys compatriots, all "traveling husbands" (married traveling salesmen), are enjoying a party with several call girls. One of the prostitutes, Ruby Smith, has fallen in love with one of the salesmen, Ben Hall. Barry has no interest in joining the party, despondent over his failure with J.C. This is exacerbated when Barry learns that his expense account has been put on hold until he can prove himself. Not being able to afford his dinner with Ellen, he calls her up and cancels their dinner date. Disappointed that her dinner has been canceled, Ellen is determined to have a good time that evening, and decides to go to the hotel for dinner by herself. When Ellen shows up at the hotel she attracts Bens attention, who joins her for dinner. After dinner, in an attempt to awe her, Ben takes Ellen on a whirlwind tour of Detroit nightspots. When they arrive back at the hotel, Ben takes Ellen back to his room. When he attempts to force his attentions on her, her cries arouse several people, one of whom is Barry. When Barry bursts into Bens room, an altercation occurs. In the dark, a gunshot is heard, and when the lights come on, Ben lies on the floor, shot. In the ensuing investigation, it is uncovered that Ruby shot Ben in a jealous fit of rage. Martha, Bens wife, has arrived and reconciles with her husband. J.C. has also arrived, and realizes how he has ignored his daughter. He, Ellen and Barry leave the hotel together.
Traveling Husbands
1931