The USS Essex is maintaining a blockade of the port of Tripoli by the small United States Navy Mediterranean squadron. American diplomatic Consul William Eaton (1764-1811), (Herbert Heyes) comes on board to recruit a commando squad for a secret mission. Lt. Presley OBannon, (1776-1850), of the U.S. Marine Corps, (John Payne) and Lt. Tripp (Lowell Gilmore) are selected for a raid on Derna a coastal town to the east, with the aid of native and mercenary forces. Hamet Karamanly (Phillip Reed), former pasha of Derna supplies men in exchange for being restored to his throne which was taken by his brother. Countess Sheila D’Areneau (Maureen OHara) stays with the Pasha and everyone presumes she is his mistress, while she angles into persuading him to marry her. OBannon recruits a native force of mercenaries - Greeks, Turks and Arabs to accompany his U.S.Marines, and some American soldiers and Navy midshipmen. OBannon and Countess D’Arneau meet and are attracted to each other, but both refuse to admit it to themselves. Countess D’Arneau convinces Hamet that the Americans plans to turn him over to his brother, but O’Bannon gets him to change his mind. Countess D’Arneau defies O’Bannon and accompanies the expedition from Alexandria, Egypt across the North African deserts, but he forces her to travel with the camp followers. After a waterhole is poisoned, the expedition has to cross a dune sea to reach the next waterhole ahead of the poisoners. O’Bannon kisses the Countess and the force has to endure a sandstorm. Hamet’s brother offers him a deal, half the kingdom in return for getting rid of the Americans. They reach the coast twelve days late and the American navy squadron under Commodore Samuel Barron is not yet there. There is almost a mutiny before the navy arrives. Hamet tells his brother the plan of attack on Derna. When the Countess learns of this, she rides to warn O’Bannon. He leads a surprise attack (Battle of Derna) on the city and captures it. Lt. O’Bannon and the Countess become a couple.
Tripoli (film)
1950