Harry Tasker leads a double life: to his wife Helen and his daughter Dana, he is a computer salesman often away on business trips, while in reality he is a covert operative for a U.S. counter-terrorism task force called "Omega Sector". Harry and fellow Agents Albert "Gib" Gibson and Faisal infiltrate a party in Switzerland, where they learn of the existence of a terrorist group known as the "Crimson Jihad", led by Salim Abu Aziz. Harry suspects that American antiques dealer Juno Skinner has ties to Aziz, and visits her undercover as a corporate art consultant. Suspicious, Aziz and his men attempt to kill him, but Harry fights them off and loses Aziz in a pursuit; as a result, he misses the birthday party that his wife and daughter have arranged for him. Harry heads to Helens office the next day to surprise her for lunch, but overhears her talking to a man named Simon. He uses Omega Sector resources to learn that Simon is a used car salesman, who pretends to be a covert agent to flirt with Helen. Harry and other Omega agents, disguised, kidnap Helen while she is at Simons trailer, and then frighten Simon into staying away from her. Using a voice masking device, Harry interrogates Helen and learns that due to his constant absence, she is desperately seeking adventure. Harry thus arranges for Helen to participate in a staged spy mission, where she is to seduce a mysterious figure (who is actually Harry himself) and plant a bug in his Marriot hotel room. Azizs men suddenly burst in, kidnap the couple, and take them to an island in the Florida Keys. Aziz reveals he has smuggled stolen MIRV nuclear warheads into the country via antique statues shipped by Juno, and threatens to detonate them in major U.S. cities unless the U.S. military leaves the Persian Gulf. He then orders the couple to be tortured; Harry (under a truth serum) finally confesses his double life to Helen, and then they escape to watch as Aziz has the warheads loaded onto vehicles. Harry leaves Helen to hide as he attacks Azizs men, but Helen is captured by Juno and taken with the convoy on the Overseas Highway. Harry is rescued by Omega agents and pursues the convoy, sending two Harrier Jump Jets to stop it and destroy part of the bridge. Harry rescues Helen from Junos limo before it careens into the ocean below. Upon returning safely to the mainland, they quickly learn that Aziz and his men have taken control of a downtown Miami skyscraper and have kidnapped Dana, threatening to detonate the remaining bomb. Harry commandeers one of the jets to rescue his daughter. Faisal poses as part of a news team requested by Aziz, providing enough distraction for Dana to steal the ignition key and flee the room. Aziz chases Dana onto a tower crane when Harry arrives. Harry is able to rescue Dana, and after a tense struggle with Aziz, Harry eventually has him ensnared on the end of one of the planes missiles, which Harry fires at the passing terrorist helicopter — killing Aziz and destroying the remaining bomb on board. Harry, Helen, and Dana are then safely reunited. A year later, the Taskers family integrity has been restored, and Helen has become another Omega Sector agent. Harry and Helen embark on a new mission together at a formal party, where they encounter Simon seducing one of the female guests. Helen and Harry intimidate Simon into fleeing, and the film ends with the couple dancing the Tango in celebration.
True Lies
1994