Following the defeat of King Mondo and the Machine Empire, on a distant planet, a wizard named Lerigot is being hunted by an intergalactic space pirate named Divatox, who seeks his golden key in order to traverse an inter-dimensional gateway on Earth known as the Nemesis Triangle. There, she plans to enter into matrimony with Maligore, a demon who promises to grant her great riches and power. Lerigot escapes Divatoxs forces and travels to Earth in search of Zordon and his friend Alpha 5, but lands in Africa instead. Weakened by the suns ultraviolet rays, Lerigot meets a pack of chimpanzees and wanders off with them. Meanwhile, Divatox sets off for Earth in pursuit. In Angel Grove, Rocky, Adam, and Tommy are training for a charity fighting competition to save the Youth Shelter, when Rocky accidentally injures his back after a wrong move causes him to fly out of the ring. Katherine and Tanya arrive with Justin, a kid who admires Rocky and frequents the shelter. As Rocky is rushed to the hospital, Justin follows the group and learns that they are Power Rangers. Zordon sends Tommy and Katherine to search for Lerigot. After a run in with a boa constrictor, fierce water rapids, and an injury to Katherines leg, they manage to find him and return to the Power Chamber. Divatoxs nephew, Elgar searches for two human sacrifices to revive Maligore. He abducts Bulk and Skull, but Divatox rejects them for not being pure of heart. Divatox finds two perfect specimens who are scuba diving nearby and captures them. While recovering, Lerigot is contacted by Divatox, who has captured his family and demands that he surrender himself. Divatox also uses the two hostages, revealed to be Kimberly and Jason, to pressure the Rangers. At the exchange site, Elgar tricks the Rangers and takes Lerigot without releasing their friends. Zordon and Alpha create new powers for the Rangers to defeat Divatox. With the new Turbo powers and their new vehicular Turbo Zords, the Rangers drive across the desert to a ship called the Ghost Galleon. They are joined by Justin, who has received Rockys powers as the new Blue Turbo Ranger, as Rocky is unable to rejoin his friends. On Divatoxs submarine, Jason and Kimberly work on a plan to escape. When the Ghost Galleon and Divatoxs submarine arrive at the Nemesis Triangle, Divatox forces Lerigot to allow them to cross while the Rangers do the same with the keys to their Ranger powers. Once they reach the island where Maligore is imprisoned, Divatox torpedoes the ship and Rangers narrowly escape in their Turbo cars. Bulk, Skull, and Kimberly escape the sub, but Jason is trapped and left behind. Kimberly is then captured by the Malicians, inhabitants of the island, and Divatox forces Lerigot to unlock the temple in the volcano and make the Malicians join her with Kimberly. The Rangers morph and fight Divatoxs forces at the temple, but are unable to free Jason and Kimberly before the two are possessed by Maligore and attack the Rangers mercilessly. The Rangers free Lerigot and his wife Yara, who undo the possession. Angered, Divatox sacrifices her nephew and successfully revives Maligore. The Rangers summon their Turbo Megazord to fight Maligore. They defeat him as Divatox and Rygog flee, vowing vengeance. The Rangers pick up Jason, Kimberly, Lerigot, Yara, Bulk, and Skull and return to Angel Grove. At the competition, Jason takes Rockys place, and they win the tournament, earning the money in order to save the shelter.
Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie
1997