The story begins with a farm mother scolding Jack for trading his cow for three seemingly worthless beans. The beans are thrown out a window and land under Sylvesters cat bed while the lazy cat is taking a "catnap". Instantly, the beans sprout into a giant beanstalk that reaches into the heavens, taking the still sleeping Sylvester with it. The puddy tat awakens and is startled at how everything seemingly grew overnight. Eventually, he walks inside a castle and instantly spots a giant birdcage (with a giant Tweety singing inside). Sylvester opens the cage and chases what he says are "acres and acres of Tweety Bird." However, Tweetys master comes into the room; after Sylvester hides, the master puts Tweety back in his cage and hangs it on a high ceiling; that way, he will not get into any mischief while he is gone. Sylvester makes several attempts to get at Tweety, having to overcome both the cage being on the ceiling and dodging a giant bulldog who is trying to chase the cat away. Each of Sylvesters attempts to get the bird ends unsuccessfully; several times, he is barely able to get away from the bulldog. At one point, he enconters a real giant mouse, only to have both of them get scared of each other and run away in opposite directions. Eventually, Sylvesters last attempt proves to be successful, but before he can make a clean getaway with Tweety, the giant returns and, sensing an intruder in his home, remarks: (with a combination of his line and Tweetys) "Fee, fi, fo, fat! I tawt I taw a puddy tat!" Sylvester flees the castle without Tweety and scurries down the beanstalk with the giant in chase. Sylvester manages to reach the ground and chops down the beanstalk with an axe. The giant falls to the ground very noisily, the impact crushing Sylvester and everything in sight being wrecked. This causes him to be hurled through the earth to China, where he meets with a stereotypical Chinese Tweety, who remarks (in a Chinese accent) his English counterparts signature lines ("Oh, I taught I taw dishonorable puddy tat.") in addition to speaking mock Chinese.
Tweety and the Beanstalk
1957