In 1949, former U.S. Army Air Forces officer Harvey Stovall (Dean Jagger) spots a familiar Toby Jug in the window of a London antique shop and learns that it came from Archbury, where Stovall served with the 918th Bomb Group during World War II. Convinced that it is the same jug, he buys it and journeys to the derelict airfield. Stovall remembers the events of 1942, when the 918th had gained a reputation as the "hard luck group." After a particularly disastrous mission, group commander Colonel Keith Davenport (Gary Merrill) appears exhausted and demoralized. His indecisive and defeatist attitude spreads to other senior leaders of the group, including his Air Exec, Lieutenant Colonel Ben Gately (Hugh Marlowe), and the groups flight surgeon. Ordered to fly another mission the next day, at a dangerously low altitude, Davenport protests to his friend, Brigadier General Frank Savage (Gregory Peck) the Assistant Chief of Staff for Operations. Later, Savage reluctantly shares with General Pritchard, the commanding general of VIII Bomber Command (Millard Mitchell), his belief that Davenport has gotten too emotionally close to his men, and may no longer be fit to command. That night, Pritchard and Savage visit the group headquarters to investigate the cause of the missions heavy losses. Pritchard realizes that Savage is right: Davenport has become over-protective of his men, and is unwilling to discipline them even for costly mistakes. Pritchard relieves Davenport of command on the spot, and later asks Savage to take over the 918th. Savage takes a harsh approach to restoring the groups discipline and morale. He begins by dressing down Lt. Col. Gately, firing him as Air Exec and insisting that he henceforth fly every mission. Savage assigns Gately only the most incompetent crewmen, ordering him to paint the name "Leper Colony" on his airplane. The rough-and-ready Major Cobb (John Kellogg) impresses Savage with his independent spirit and replaces Gately as Air Exec. Savage conducts a series of training missions and waits for an opportunity to restore the groups pride in its abilities. Upset by the contrast of Savages stern leadership with Davenports easygoing ways, all of the 918th Squadron pilots apply for transfers. Savage asks the Group Adjutant, Major Stovall, to delay processing their applications to buy him some time. An attorney in civilian life, Stovall knows how to use organizational "red tape” to his advantage. When the 918th returns to combat, all the groups are ordered to abort their mission due to heavy weather. Savage, leading the group, ignores the recall order. The 918th successfully bombs the target, and is the only group to do so. All of its crews return safely. Nevertheless, Pritchard is furious with Savage for ignoring the recall order. Savage claims that he did not hear the recall due to radio malfunction. Instead of a reprimand, Savage persuades Pritchard to recommend the group for a Distinguished Unit Citation. Savage also acquires a surrogate son in Lieutenant Jesse Bishop (Robert Patten), a Medal of Honor recipient who is Savages eyes and ears among the combat aircrews. The Inspector General arrives to investigate the pilots transfer requests, and Stovalls delaying tactics. Expecting to be relieved, and possibly court-martialed, Savage packs his belongings while the IG interviews the groups pilots. Led by Bishop, the pilots save Savages career by withdrawing their requests to transfer. Savage also softens his attitude towards the men as he becomes more closely involved with them. Gately wins Savages respect and admiration by demonstrating extraordinary leadership and courage in combat. With enemy resistance intensifying as the air war advances deeper into Germany, missions become longer and riskier, and many of Savages best men are shot down or killed. Pritchard tries to get Savage to return to a staff job at VIII Bomber Command but Savage refuses because he feels that the 918th is not ready to stand up without him yet. Reluctantly, Pritchard leaves him in command. After a particularly brutal mission, Savages iron will cracks. On the day of the first daylight bombing raid on Berlin, he finds himself physically unable to haul himself up into his B-17. The redeemed Ben Gately takes his place as lead pilot and strike commander for the mission. While waiting for the group’s return, Savage becomes catatonic. Only as they return to Archbury does Savage regain his composure and fall asleep. The story then returns to 1949 and Stovall pedals away on his bicycle.
Twelve O'Clock High
1949