Bella Swan is a seventeen-year-old outcast, who moves from Phoenix, Arizona to Forks, Washington on the Olympic Peninsula to live with her father, Charlie. Her mother, Renée is traveling with her new husband, Phil Dwyer, a minor league baseball player. Bella is admitted to Forks High School, where she befriends many of the students. A somewhat inexperienced and shy girl, Bella is dismayed by several boys competing for her attention. As Bella walks into the class, a fan blows her scent towards a mysterious man named Edward Cullen. Bella sits next to Edward in biology class on her first day of school, but he seems repulsed by her, affecting her feelings in the process. He disappears for a few days, but warms up to Bella upon his return; their newfound relationship is interrupted after Bella is nearly struck by Tylers van in the school parking lot. Edward saves Bella, stopping the van with only his hand. Bella questions Edward about how he saved her life. She hears that Edward and his family are actually vampires who drink animal blood. She is told legends of the local Quileute people by a friend named Jacob Black, who she met during a camp out. Disturbed and riddled by recurring nightmares, Bella researches about vampires. Much to her dismay, she then realizes that Edward hadnt come to school on the blood typing day, because he is a vampire; she compares the characteristics of the vampires in mythology to the Cullens, and finds many similarities. Convinced that he is a vampire, she finds herself in the state of bewilderment. Bella is saved by Edward again in Port Angeles when she is almost attacked. Driving a silver Volvo, Edward takes Bella to dinner and then back home. As they drive, she tells him of the stories that he is a vampire. Edward says he tried to stay away, finding her scent too desirable. Over time, Edward and Bella fall in love. Their relationship is affected when a nomad vampire coven arrives in Forks. James, a tracker vampire who is intrigued by Cullens relationship with a human, wants to hunt Bella for sport. The Cullen family try to separate Bella and Edward, and send Bella to Phoenix to hide in a hotel. James calls and claims to be holding her mother hostage. When Bella surrenders, James attacks her. Before he can finish her, Edward and other Cullens rescue her and kill James. He still attacks the girl. Edward prevents her from becoming a vampire, and she is treated at a hospital. After they return to Forks, they go to the school prom together. Bella says that she wants to become a vampire, but Edward cannot help at the time. Bellas desire to become a vampire increases throughout the series. Edward continues to refuse as he hates being immortal, and does not want Bella to suffer the same fate.
Twilight (novel)
2008