David Mitchell (Richard Chamberlain), a widowed lawyer in a small New Mexican city, is appointed by Judge Tucker to defend Ben Brown (Nick Adams) who has been charged with murder. Norris Bixby, an ambitious local prosecutor, has been assigned to try the case, hoping to fill the shoes of Art Harper (Claude Rains), a famed local prosecutor as well as Davids friend and mentor, who is now retired. Mitchell goes to see Art Harper that night to ask for advice and receives a pep-talk from Harper, demanding he use every legal trick in the book to defend his new client. They are interrupted by Harpers niece, Susan (Joan Blackman), who has romantic feelings for David, and has just arrived back in town from Chicago. During dinner Mitchell says Ben Brown confessed to the killing, and the prosecution is asking for the gas chamber. He knows that Brown is unlikely to get a fair trial in town, and even he confesses to having preconceived notions about him. Harper says played a role in Mitchells being appointed as the defense on the case, and that while he himself is not healthy enough to defend the case personally, he will help Mitchell try to obtain justice for the accused. Susan also volunteers to be his legal secretary, hoping to spend time with Mitchell. The next morning, Mitchell goes to the prison to see his new client. He runs into Bens wife, Laura-Mae Brown (Joey Heatherton), who turned her husband in, and reveals that she despises her husband, and "hopes he croaks," claiming Ben frequently beat her. She says he murdered a man in a bungled robbery attempt, then fled in the mans car. She also claims her husband is a compulsive liar, and that Mitchell didnt run into her by chance; Bixby wanted her to talk to him, to make it appear the trial will be fair. Despite what his wife said about him, Ben appears to be only concerned with his wifes freedom, claiming he wants her to have a good lawyer. Ben says that he was starved, threatened, and beaten into signing the confession. He also reveals that a second confession was sought, and that parts of the first were purposely left off, including Bens assertion that the murdered man, Cole Clinton, an off-duty police officer, was committing adultery with his wife before the murder. Mitchell and Harper research New Mexico law, and find a precedent which states that a murder that occurs during the adultery of a mans spouse is deemed justifiable homicide. Mitchell also reveals that the entire jury list is consisting of friends of Clinton, who was a popular man in town. Despite this, they feel that they finally have a solid defense for the case. After Harper goes to bed, Susan tells Mitchell she loves him. The next morning, Mitchell, Morris Bixby, and Judge Tucker arrive to pick the jury. Mitchell and Bixby argue over the fairness of the case, and when picking the jury, Judge Tucker refuses to disqualify Clintons friends and club members. At lunch, David finds that a local paper is being sold outside the court in view of the jurors, and the front page story features Bens confession. Mitchell finds out that Bixby leaked the confession to the press, knowing that the jurors will read it. Back in court, a witness claims that Ben was abusive towards his wife in a bar, and that he was eyeing Clintons money. Another witness claims that Ben saw Clinton drop his money, and clearly knew he had a large wad of bills on him. When Mitchell asserts that Clinton intended to spend the night with Laura-Mae, Mrs. Clinton faints. After the day in court, Mitchell visits Mrs. Clinton at her request. She reveals that Mitchells suspicions are true, and that for the last few years, her husband was chasing younger women. She offers to plea for mercy for Ben, if David drops his adultery defense out of respect for Clintons daughter, who idolized her father. Mitchell refuses her offer, hoping to help Ben avoid being found guilty altogether. Although an autopsy wasnt performed, Clintons doctor alleges that he wasnt in the act of sexual intercourse during death. Bixby calls Clintons widow to the stand, despite Mitchells objections. She says the accusations against her late husband are false, and although Mitchell could prove her wrong, he feels pity and refuses to cross-examine her. The next day Bens commanding officer from his time in the Air Force testifies Ben changed after being married, going AWOL repeatedly to see his wife, becoming moody, and showing signs of mental instability. After being denied leave to look for his wife, he attempted to hang himself as well. Mitchell then calls Ben to the stand. Ben tells how he first met his wife in a bar, after seeing her dancing seductively at the jukebox. He was smitten by her and they danced and talked for hours. She accompanied him to his room, and despite just meeting her, Ben proposed marriage. She was arrested for prostitution, and after getting her out of jail, they began hitchhiking cross country where they met Mr. Clinton, who picked them up after seeing Laura-Mae. He showed his badge and gun, telling him not to worry about tickets. At a motel, Ben found Laura-Mae and Clinton together. He ran in as Clinton pulled his gun. In the struggle, Ben grabbed the gun and beat him to death with it. They fled in Clintons car. Ben also tearfully admits he still loves his wife, and bears no ill will, even though she turned him in and applied for the reward money. Bixby begins his cross examination, asserting that Ben pimped his wife to Clinton, beating him to death when he refused. Bixby cant legally call Laura-Mae to the stand to testify against her husband, so he goads Mitchell into calling her, which he does. The judge dismissed court before she can testify however. David visits Laura-Mae to try to get her to agree to tell the truth, and realizes she is about to have company. He waits around and sees a man enter her room. Looking through the window, he realizes it is Bixbys co-prosecutor, Judson Elliot, and that he is having an affair with her, despite being married and having four kids. In court the next morning, Laura-Mae takes the stand. As Bixby begins his cross examination, David reveals in the judges quarters that he saw them, and will reveal the story if they cross-examine her. He also finds out that Elliot is carrying Clintons money clip, which Laura-Mae gave to him. After dismissing Elliot, Bixby refuses to compromise, and as court resumes, Harper arrives and is wheeled into the courtroom by Mitchell. Mitchell begins his closing statement. He goes over all of the points of the trial, as well as the conniving done by the state to protect Mr. Clintons reputation, and further Bixbys career. Bixbys rebuttal emphasizes the confession and plays on the emotions of the jury, most of whom were friends with Clinton. He claims that they cant find Ben innocent without finding Clinton guilty. The jury retires to deliberate, while Harper jovially challenges Mitchell to declare his intentions for Susan. Ben is found not guilty on all counts. Bixby is outraged at the loss, knowing it will hurt his career and curtail his ambitions. Harper confesses that Mitchells new-found fame will make him the target of anyone in the Southwest in serious trouble, and passes the mantle to him. Mitchell declares his intentions for Susan, and the film ends with them sharing a kiss in front of the courthouse, then walking home hand in hand.
Twilight of Honor
1963