FBI Regional Bureau Chief Gordon Cole sends agents Chester Desmond and Sam Stanley to investigate the murder of drifter and teenage prostitute Teresa Banks in the town of Deer Meadow, Washington. The pair are informed about their new assignment through a woman named Lil. On her lapel is a tiny, artificial blue rose, clearly symbolic of something; when Sam asks, Chet simply replies, "But I cant tell you about that." Desmond and Stanley view Teresas body at the local morgue. They notice that a ring is missing from her finger and a small piece of paper printed with the letter "T" has been inserted under one of her fingernails. Later, Desmond discovers Teresas missing ring under a trailer. As he reaches out to it, he is taken by an unseen force. At FBI headquarters in Philadelphia, Cole and Agent Dale Cooper experience a brief vision of their long-lost colleague Agent Phillip Jeffries. He tells them about a meeting he witnessed involving several mysterious spirits — The Man from Another Place, Killer BOB, Mrs. Chalfont and her grandson. Agent Cooper is sent to Deer Meadow to investigate Desmonds disappearance, but finds no answers. One year later in Twin Peaks, high school homecoming queen Laura Palmer and her best friend Donna Hayward attend school. Laura is addicted to cocaine and is cheating on her boyfriend, the arrogant and ill-tempered jock Bobby Briggs, with the biker James Hurley. Laura realizes pages are missing from her secret diary, and gives the rest of the diary to her friend, the agoraphobic recluse Harold Smith. Mrs. Chalfont and her grandson appear to Laura. They warn her that the "man behind the mask" is in her bedroom. Laura runs home, where she sees BOB. She rushes outside in terror and is startled to see her father, Leland, emerge from the house. That evening Lelands behavior is erratic and abusive—he accusingly asks her about her romances, then tenderly tells her he loves her. Laura has a dream about entering the Black Lodge. Cooper and the Man from Another Place appear in her dream. The Man from Another Place informs Cooper that "I am the arm", revealing his identity as MIKEs severed arm, and offers Teresas ring to Laura, but Cooper tells her not to take it. Laura finds Annie Blackburn next to her in bed, covered in blood. Annie tells Laura to write in her diary that "the good Dale is in the Lodge and cannot leave". Laura sees the ring in her hand, but when she wakes up the next morning, it is gone. The next evening, Laura goes to the Roadhouse to meet her drug connections and have sex with strange men. Unexpectedly, Donna shows up. They all go to the Pink Room. Laura discusses Teresa Bankss murder with Ronette Pulaski, and Ronette says that Teresa was trying to blackmail someone. When she sees a topless Donna making out with a stranger, a distraught Laura takes her home and begs Donna not to become like her. The next morning, Philip Gerard, the one-armed man possessed by the repentant demon MIKE, in an attempt to warn Laura about her father and Bob, pulls up alongside Lelands car and shows Teresas ring to Laura. Leland recalls his affair with Teresa. He had asked Teresa to set up a foursome and invite some of her friends, but fled when he discovered Laura was among them. Teresa realized who he was and plotted to blackmail him, and he killed her to prevent his secrets from being revealed. Laura realizes that Mikes ring was the one from her dream, and was also worn by Teresa. The next night, BOB comes through Lauras window and begins to rape her, only to transform into Leland. Upset, Laura uses more cocaine and has trouble concentrating at school. When Bobby realizes Laura is only using him to score cocaine, he breaks off their relationship. Laura then breaks up with James and goes to a cabin in the woods for an orgy with Ronette, Jacques and Leo. Leland follows her there and, after attacking Jacques and scaring away Leo, takes Laura and Ronette to an abandoned train car. Laura asks Leland if he is going to kill her, but he transforms into BOB, who tells Laura that he intends to possess her. MIKE has tracked the BOB-possessed Leland to the train, but when Ronette tries to let him in, BOB beats her unconscious. Mike manages to throw in Teresas ring. Laura puts it on, which prevents BOB from possessing her. Enraged, BOB stabs Laura to death. The BOB-possessed Leland places Lauras body in the lake. As her corpse drifts away, the BOB-possessed Leland enters the Red Room, where he encounters MIKE and the Man from Another Place who announce they want their share of "garmonbozia." As Lauras body is found by the Sheriffs department, Agent Cooper comforts her spirit in the Lodge and she sees an angel that had previously disappeared from her bedroom painting.
Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me
1992