In June 1969, 5-year-old Jo Thornton, her parents, and their dog, Toby, seek shelter in their storm cellar from an F5 tornado in Oklahoma. Because of its strong winds, the tornado ends up ripping the cellar door off and pulling Jos father into the storm to his death. Jo, her mother, and Toby survive. Twenty-seven years later, in the spring of 1996, Jo has studied meteorology and become a storm chaser in the midwest. As the storm season begins, Jo is reunited with her estranged husband, Bill "The Extreme" Harding, and meets his current fiancée Melissa Reeves; they are here to have her sign divorce papers to allow Bill and Melissas marriage to go forward. With obvious feelings still for Bill, Jo doesnt sign the papers right away, and uses various stall tactics. She shows Bill her DOROTHY units, four mobile, self-contained tornado research systems consisting of hundreds of deployable sensors, developed from Bills designs, which she and her team plan to test. Before Jo can sign the paperwork, she is alerted to a developing candidate storm nearby and sets off. Bill and Melissa follow her, and en route encounter Dr. Jonas Miller, a smug, corporate-funded storm chaser, who has developed a more advanced tornado research unit called DOT-3, also based on Bills designs. Desiring to have Jo take the credit over Jonas, Bill agrees to help Jo to successful deploy DOROTHY first, against Melissas concerns. Bill and Jo head into the path of an F1 tornado. Abandoning their vehicle, they take shelter under a small, wooden bridge as the twister passes over them, destroying Jos truck and DOROTHY I. By the time the F1 dissipates, Melissa brings Bills truck just as Jos truck lands upside-down in front of her as she follows the team, causing her to panic and nearly crash. Bill loads the remaining units onto his truck, they continue onward, now following an F2 tornado. However, the winds also breed two waterspouts, in between which they are caught. Melissa becomes hysterical as the waterspout splits into three and all pass over their truck, spinning them around repeatedly, though otherwise unharmed. With the weather calmed down, the team travels to Wakita, Oklahoma, to visit Jos Aunt Meg, giving Bill a chance to help calm Melissas nerves and allowing the team to eat and get cleaned up. Jo learns of an F3 tornado nearby; they drop Melissa off with Jos research team while she and Bill chase down the storm. The storm damages the DOROTHY II unit, spilling its sensor units. Against Bills pleas, Jo tries to leave the truck to collect them. Bill forces her to abandon the unit and get back into the truck, driving them safely away. Out of danger, Bill confronts Jo about her obsession with tornadoes that he realizes comes from her fathers death; Melissa hears this over the open radio. During their discussion, Bill comes to a conclusion that the DOROTHY units are too light to remain stationary to properly disperse the sensors in time; they need a heavy pack to weigh the units down. That night, the team plans on staying at a motor inn next to a drive-in theater. Still stinging from Bills lashing out earlier, Jo signs the divorce papers. Just then, an F4 tornado plows through the drive-in, forcing the team and the movie-goers to take shelter. As emergency services arrive, Melissa tells Bill that she recognizes he still has feelings for Jo, and amicably ends her engagement, leaving on her own. The team learns that the tornado is continuing on to hit Wakita, so they quickly rush to check on Meg. There, they find that the town had no warning and has been devastated as a result. Most buildings have been destroyed, and they find Aunt Megs house severely damaged. Bill and Jo rescue her aunt and her dog Mose from the collapsed house. As they wait for medical services to take Meg to the hospital, Jo notices in Megs front yard the kinetic sculptures barely damaged and turning in the wind. Jo realizes that they can modify the sensors in DOROTHY with wind flaps to give them buoyancy and easily enter a tornado. News of a powerful F5 tornado is reported in the nearby area. As they race there, Jo and her team use aluminum from soda cans to add blades to each sensor and reload the DOROTHY units. The two units are mounted on Bills truck, and he and Jo drive into the storm. They attempt to deploy DOROTHY III, but the peripheral winds from the tornado pushes the unit around, and its eventually destroyed by debris. They hear that Jonas and his team are also trying to deploy DOT-3, and Bill tries to warn Jonas off, believing the storm will shift course toward them. Jonas ignores his advice, and sure enough, after the tornado makes a sudden shift, Jonas and his driver are killed and DOT-3 is destroyed. With only the DOROTHY IV unit remaining, Bill and Jo decide to try one last time. Keeping the unit strapped into the bed of the truck, they hope the vehicle will provide the weight needed to keep DOROTHY IV in place long enough to deploy into the funnel successfully. Bill drives the truck through a cornfield toward the F5 tornado, as Jo activates the sensors in DOROTHY. At the last possible moment, the two leap from the truck, letting the truck and the unit go into the storm; her team reports success as the sensors gather data across the entire height of the funnel. However, they find the storm has changed course again, and is now bearing directly onto them. Knowing that a nearby barn and farmhouse would not be enough shelter, Bill and Jo use leather straps to anchor themselves to the pipes of a pumping house which are anchored deep underground. The tornado demolishes the pumping house, but the two remain secure to the pipes, and are able to witness the beauty of the eye of the storm as it passes over them. As the storm dissipates, they see the farm house and family survived virtually untouched. They reunite with Jos team and celebrate their success, and Bill and Jo decide to form a new lab to analyze the new data, giving their marriage a second chance in the process.
Twister (1996 film)
1996