Molly Mahoney (Joan Blondell) forms a vaudeville act with her fiancé Eddie Kerns (George Murphy). Working at a local dance school, she longs to become a star performing on Broadway. Eddie persuades her to leave town for New York City, and after their arrival, Eddie debuts on the radio with his so-called singing canaries. Although the canaries are unable to sing, Eddie is not, and following an impressive debut he is offered a job at the station. He convinces co-worker Buddy Bartell (Richard Lanez) to grant Molly and her little sister Pat (Lana Turner) an audition. What promised to be a big opportunity turns into the start of noticeable tensions between the sisters, when Bartell announces he wants to team Eddie and Pat. Molly, meanwhile, is offered a degrading job selling cigarettes. Instead of complaining, Molly swallows her pride and allows Pat to take the limelight meant for her. Meanwhile, wealthy and often-married playboy Chat Chatsworth (Kent Taylor) falls for Pat and starts flirting with her. After a while, Molly finds out about Chats wild past through her gossipy friend Jed Marlowe (Wallace Ford), and tries to warn her sister. Her worries turn out to be unnecessary, though, as Pat feels more attracted to Eddie. She does not want to hurt Mollys feeling or ruin her engagement, and decides to return home. Molly, who is unaware of Pats motives for leaving, insists that she stay. Thinking it is the only way of forgetting her feelings for Eddie, Pat accepts a proposal from Chat and elopes with him. When Eddie hears about this, he is alarmed, because he had been secretly in love with Pat the entire time. He admits his true feeling for Pat to Molly, and is encouraged to follow her. However, upon arriving at the apartment, Eddie finds out that Pat and Chat have already left. Overhearing one of Chats servants of Pat and Chats whereabouts, Eddie rushes to City Hall. Breaking up a wedding ceremony that has already begun, Eddie professes his love for Pat. With the blessing of Molly, Pat and Eddie decide to marry, while Molly returns home.
Two Girls on Broadway
1940