At a Miami nightclub, gangster Bert Galvin offers to take singer Ruth Williams under his wing and to New York, helping her career. She agrees once it is made clear that their relationship will be strictly business. On the road, they stop for dinner at Claudes Restaurant, where Bert knows the owner. The local sheriff, Bill Langley, recognizes Bert and tips off a revenge-minded man whose brother Bert killed. But given a warning by Claude whats about to happen, Bert shoots and kills the man. Charged with murder, Bert is defended by Milo Bragg, a smooth-talking Southern lawyer. Claude testifies that the killing was in self-defense. Ruth is expected to do the same, but when district attorney Arthur Sherbourne reminds her that shes under oath, Ruth breaks down and tells the truth. Bert is convicted and sentenced to 20 years in a prison farm. There, prisoners are all literally "under the gun" of a ruthless trustee, Nugent, who is a convict like themselves but carries a rifle. Bert intends to escape, but fellow inmate Sam Gower befriends him and explains that a trustee is promised an immediate pardon if he should kill any prisoner who tries to flee. As a test, Bert lies to a gullible con called Five Shot that theres $25,000 waiting for him if he can break out. Five Shot is killed by Nugent, who does indeed immediately receive his parole. Bert seizes the opportunity to take his place as trustee. Bragg, the lawyer, pays a visit, now a drunk, disbarred and desperate for money. Bert has him dig up information about Gower, his fellow inmate. He learns that Gowers family was left in dire financial straits. Bert makes a proposition, saying he will pay the family $25,000 if Gower will try to escape. Guilt-ridden about his family, Gower agrees. He nearly makes it out safely before Bert kills him. Now paroled, Bert immediately tracks down Ruth, seeking vengeance for her testimony. Sheriff Langley is following, though, as they take a speedboat, then end up on foot in a swamp. Ruth gets her hands on Berts gun, but cannot bring herself to shoot him. Langley has no such hesitation, taking aim and shooting Bert dead.
Under the Gun (1951 film)
1951