In 1881 in Big Whiskey, Wyoming, two cowboys, Quick Mike and "Davey-Boy" Bunting, attack and disfigure prostitute Delilah Fitzgerald with a knife after she laughs at the small size of Quick Mikes penis. As punishment, local sheriff "Little Bill" Daggett orders the cowboys to pay compensation in the form of several horses to the brothel owner, Skinny Dubois. The rest of the prostitutes do not consider this justice and offer a $1,000 reward to anyone who can kill the cowboys, much to the fury of Little Bill who does not allow guns or criminals in his town. Miles away in Kansas, a boastful young man calling himself the "Schofield Kid" visits the pig farm of reformed bandit William Munny, seeking to recruit him to help kill the cowboys and claim the reward. In his youth, Munny was a notorious murderer, however he is now a repentant widower raising two children and has long since sworn off alcohol and killing. Initially refusing to help, Munny recognizes that his farm is failing, putting his childrens future in jeopardy, and so reconsiders a few days later and sets off to catch up with the Kid. On his way, Munny recruits his friend Ned Logan, another retired gunfighter. Back in Wyoming, British-born gunfighter "English Bob", an old acquaintance and rival of Little Bill, is also seeking the reward and arrives in Big Whiskey with a biographer, W. W. Beauchamp. Little Bill and his deputies disarm Bob and Bill beats him savagely, hoping to discourage other would-be assassins from attempting to claim the bounty. The next morning he ejects Bob from town, but Beauchamp decides to stay and write about Bill, who has impressed him with his tales of old gunfights and seeming knowledge of the gunfighters psyche. Munny, Logan and the Kid arrive later during a rain storm and head into the saloon/whorehouse to meet with the prostitutes and learn the cowboys location. Delirious with fever after riding in the rain, Munny is sitting alone in the saloon when Little Bill and his deputies arrive to confront him. Not realizing Munnys identity and believing him to be drunk, Little Bill beats him and kicks him out of the saloon after finding that he is carrying a pistol. Logan and the Kid, upstairs getting advances in kind on their payment from the prostitutes, escape through a back window. The three regroup at a barn outside town, where they nurse Munny back to health. Three days later, they ambush a group of cowboys and kill Bunting, though Logan and Munny show that they no longer have much stomach for murder. Logan decides to quit and return home, while Munny feels they must finish the job. Munny and the Kid head to the cowboys ranch, where the Kid ambushes Quick Mike in an outhouse and kills him. After they escape, a distraught Kid confesses he had never killed anyone before and renounces life as a gunfighter. When one of the prostitutes meets the two men outside of Big Whiskey to give them the reward, they learn that Logan was intercepted by Little Bills men and tortured to death, in the process revealing Munnys true identity to Little Bill. The Kid heads back to Kansas to deliver the reward money to Munnys children and Logans wife, while an embittered Munny, finishing Logans bottle of whiskey after not drinking for years, returns to town to take revenge on Little Bill. That night, Munny arrives and sees Logans corpse displayed in a coffin outside the saloon with a sign reading "This Is What Happens To Assassins Around Here". Inside, Little Bill has assembled a posse to pursue Munny and the Kid. Munny walks in alone to confront the posse and kills Dubois. Munny then shoots Bill and kills several of his deputies, ordering the others to leave the saloon. Critically wounded, Bill vows to "see [Munny] in hell" before Munny finishes him. Munny then threatens the townsfolk before finally leaving Big Whiskey, warning that he will return for more vengeance if Logan is not buried properly or if any of the prostitutes are harmed. A title card epilogue says that Munny may have moved to San Francisco with his children where he prospered in dry goods.
Unforgiven
1992