The story is told through Blaires laptop screen. A year ago, high school student Laura Barns commits suicide after an anonymous user uploads a viral video of her passing out and defecating herself at an unsupervised party. On her death anniversary one year later, her former childhood best friend Blaire Lily is chatting with her boyfriend Mitch Roussel on Skype, during which they agree to lose their virginities to each other on prom night. Soon after, they are joined by their friends/classmates Jess Felton, Ken Smith, and Adam Sewell and an unknown user named "billie227," which they dismiss as a glitch after several unsuccessful attempts to disconnect it. After Mitch and Blaire receive messages from Lauras Facebook account and discovers "billie227" is Lauras Skype account, the entire group suspects their classmate Val Rommel is pranking them. After they invite Val to their chat, Jesss Facebook page is updated with racy photos of Val at a party. Jess denies uploading the photos and deletes them from her account, but the pictures reappear on Adams account. "billie227" starts chatting with them and sends Val a message. Val reacts negatively, calls the police, and signs off. They each receive a link of an Instagram post showing a photo of Val and Lauras messages, with Val telling Laura to kill herself. "billie227" says they all have dark secrets, sending each of them an email that leaves them unnerved; Blaire receives photos of her and Adams affair. Val is suddenly brought back into the chat, sitting still next to a bottle of bleach before collapsing. From the polices arrival and voice, they deduce that Val died from a presumed suicide. Ken uses a program to remove "billie227" from the chat, but after they attempt to call the police, the police on the other end implies she is "billie227" and re-enters the chat, revealing a camera view which appears to come from the other side of his room. He approaches the camera source, but his Skype is disconnected and reconnects showing him shredding his hand inside an active blender before using the blades to claw out his throat; killing himself in the process. "billie227" forces the remaining four to play a game of Never Have I Ever, stating that the loser will die. They are forced to reveal hurtful secrets which reveal their backstabbing against each other. Mitch and a drunken Adam argue despite Blaires pleas for them to calm down, and Adam uses the game to force Blaire to reveal that she is no longer a virgin, having slept with him behind Mitchs back, with "billie227" uploading a YouTube video of their tryst. Blaire and Adam receive messages sent to their printers which they refuse to show to Mitch and Jess. Mitch threatens to leave if Blaire does not show the note; "billie227" warns that Mitch will die if he signs off. In a moment of panic, Blaire shows her paper: "If you reveal this note, Adam will die." Adam shoots himself, revealing the same note except it was for Blaire. When Blaire convinces Jess not to continue playing, "billie227" cuts the lights in Jesss house and disconnects her video feed. Blaire looks for help on Chatroulette and has a stranger send police to Jess house. Soon after, Blaire receives a video of Jess with a curling iron forced down her throat. "billie227", now revealed to be Laura herself, messages Blaire and Mitch, wanting them to confess who uploaded the video in the first place. Blaire considers denying involvement, but eventually tells her that Mitch was the one who posted it; Mitch grabs a knife and stabs himself in the eye. Laura starts a countdown timer and Blaire desperately tries to stop her, reminding her of their closeness when they were just kids until they drifted apart for unknown reasons. Laura tells her they didnt "drift apart" and uploads a video which reveals Blaire recorded the defecation video. Blaires Facebook friends turn against her. Laura says what Blaire has done will live online forever and wishes she could forgive her, before signing off Skype. Blaires bedroom door creaks open and a pair of hands slam her laptop shut. As Blaire whispers "Laura" in fear, a spirit violently lunges at her as the screen cuts to black.
Unfriended
2015