Charles "Chick" Miller (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.) is a hobo released from jail for vagrancy, along with fellow drifter "Scrap Iron" Scratch (Guy Kibbee). The two men then head to the local railroad station "to catch a train out of town". Through a series of chance encounters with travelers in the main terminal of Union Depot, Chick becomes, in his own words, a "Gentleman for a Day" (the name under which the film was released in the United Kingdom). Entering Union Depot, Chick, steals or "acquires" a station officials uniform. Concerned that he will be caught impersonating staff he retreats into the public washroom, where he finds a suitcase left by a drunk passenger. Inside the suitcase are toiletries and a nice double-breasted mans suit that has a wad of cash in one of its pockets. After getting cleaned up in the washroom and changing into the suit, Chick uses the money to buy himself a much-need meal at the depots diner. Soon he meets Ruth Collins (Joan Blondell) sitting on a bench in the main terminal. She tells him that she is an out-of-work chorus girl, is broke, and desperate to raise the $64 train fare to Salt Lake City, where a job is waiting for her. Although she is telling him the truth, he thinks she is a prostitute, and he offers to take her to a nearby private "dining room" to treat her to dinner and to have an intimate time together drinking. There he becomes angry when she resists further advances after they kiss. He calls her a "phony" but begins to believe her story after she shows him a telegram with her job offer. Ruth admits to him that she is certainly "no Pollyanna" but not a prostitute. She then confides to Chick that she is worried about being followed by Dr. Bernardi (George Rosener), whom she describes as a "madman" and a fellow resident of the cheap boarding house where she had lived. She adds that the strange, obsessive doctor had "bad eyes" and had previously paid her to read to him in the evenings, namely lewd "European" publications that she found disgusting. Now feeling sorry for Ruth and describing himself as "Santa Claus", Chick tells Ruth he will give her the money she needs "with no strings attached". Meanwhile, back inside Union Depot, among the crowd is Bushy Sloan (Alan Hale), who presents himself as a German “musician” and carries a violin case. Soon he checks his case at the stations baggage area, depositing it there for temporary storage. The case, however, does not contain a violin; it is full of counterfeit money. A pickpocket later steals Sloans wallet, which holds his baggage-claim ticket. The thief discards the wallet in an alleyway after removing its cash. While waiting for Chick outside the depot, Scrap Iron finds the wallet. It is not completely empty; the ticket is still inside it. Later he gives the ticket to Chick, who uses it to reclaim the violin case. Initially, Chick plans to pawn the case; however, when he opens it, he is stunned to find it full of money, not realizing it is all counterfeit. He hides the case and most of the bogus cash in a coal bin at a small building near the central depot and instructs Scrap Iron to stand guard while he ponders what to do next. Chick sees Ruth again and gives her some of the violin-case money to buy new clothes at a shop in the station. She too is unaware that it is counterfeit. While Chick is away, Dr. Bernardi sends Ruth a passenger ticket and a message to meet him in the designated train compartment. Believing the ticket is from Chick, Ruth goes there. When she finds Bernardi instead, she begins screaming. Chick breaks through the locked door, but Bernardi escapes through a window. As he runs across an adjacent railroad track he is struck by a passing train and killed. A dress shop clerk (Adrienne Dore) who had sold clothes to Ruth becomes suspicious of the cash she had used. The clerk decides to take the counterfeit bills to the station master. Both Ruth and Chick are then taken into custody by government agent Kendall (David Landau). Kendall has been alerted that Bushy, a known criminal, was at the station to pass the phony money to an associate; but he has no description of Bushy. He therefore believes that Ruth might either be Bushy or one of his associates. To clear her, Chick goes to retrieve the hidden violin case and is escorted by another agent, Jim Parker (Earle Foxe). The men are followed by Bushy, who shoots Parker, and flees with the case. Chick chases and catches him. All is eventually cleared up, and Ruth has a bittersweet parting from Chick, as she leaves on the train to Utah. The film ends with Chick and Scrap Iron walking together along the railroad track, away from Union Depot and back to their lives as hobos.
Union Depot (film)
1932