Dr. Martin Harris and his wife Liz arrive in Berlin for a biotechnology summit. At their hotel, Martin realises he left his briefcase at the airport and takes a taxi to retrieve it. On the way, the taxi is involved in an accident and crashes into the Spree, knocking Martin unconscious. The driver, Gina, rescues him and flees the scene, as she is an illegal immigrant from Bosnia. Martin regains consciousness at a hospital after having been in a coma. When Martin returns to the hotel, he discovers Liz with another man who she says is Dr Harris, and she claims to not know him. The police arrest Martin. He phones a colleague, Prof. Rodney Cole, but reaches only his voice mail. Aboard a train, Martin writes down his schedule for the next day by memory. Martin visits the office of Prof. Leo Bressler, whom he is scheduled to meet, but sees the impostor, "Martin B", already there. As Martin attempts to prove his identity, Martin B shows him his ID and family photo, both of which have the impostors face. Overwhelmed by the identity crisis, Martin falls unconscious, then finds himself back at the hospital. Smith, an assassin sent to target Martin, kills a nurse, Gretchen Erfurt, but Martin escapes. He seeks help from Erfurts friend, private investigator and former Stasi agent Ernst Jürgen. Martins only clues are his fathers book on botany and Gina, who since the crash now works at a diner. While Martin persuades Gina to help him, Jürgen researches Martin and the biotechnology summit. He discovers the summit will be attended by Prince Shada of Saudi Arabia, who is funding a secret project headed by Bressler. Prince Shada has survived numerous assassination attempts, and Jürgen suspects that Martins identity theft might be related. At Ginas apartment, Smith and another assassin, Jones, attack; the couple escapes after Gina kills Smith. In his book, Martin finds that Liz has written a series of numbers that correspond to words found on specific pages. Using his schedule, Martin confronts Liz alone; she tells him he left his briefcase at the airport. Meanwhile, Jürgen receives Cole at his office and reveals his findings about a secretive assassination group known as Section 15. Jürgen soon deduces that Cole is a former mercenary and potent killer from the group. Knowing Cole is here to kill him and he has no way of escaping, Jürgen commits suicide by ingesting cyanide to protect Martin from Section 15. After retrieving his briefcase, Martin parts ways with Gina. When she sees him kidnapped by Cole and Jones, she steals a taxicab and chases them. When Martin wakes, Cole says Martin Harris is a cover name in the Section 15 assassin team. Liz notified Cole of Martins head injury, which caused him to believe his persona was real; Martin B was activated as his replacement. Gina runs over Jones before he can kill Martin, then rams Coles van, killing him. After Martin finds a hidden compartment in his briefcase containing two Canadian passports, he remembers that he and Liz were in Berlin three months prior to plant a bomb in Prince Shadas suite. Now aware of his own role in the assassination plot, Martin seeks to redeem himself by thwarting it. Hotel security immediately arrests Martin and Gina, but Martin convinces them of his earlier presence in the hotel. Liz uses her own copy of the books secret codes to remotely access Bresslers laptop and steal the data. After being convinced of the bombs presence, security evacuates the hotel. Martin suddenly realizes that Prince Shada is not Section 15s target, but rather Bressler, who has developed a genetically modified breed of corn capable of surviving harsh climates. With Bresslers death and the theft of his research, billions of dollars would fall into the wrong hands. Seeing their assassination attempt has been foiled, Liz dies attempting to disarm the bomb. Martin kills Martin B, the last remaining Section 15 assassin, before the latter can murder Bressler. Bressler announces he is giving his project to the world for free, while Martin and Gina board a train together with new identities.
Unknown (2011 film)
2011