Gary Ainsworth (Dennis OKeefe) is about to celebrate one month of marriage to his Geraldine (Marjorie Reynolds) when his ex-girlfriend Mabel Essington (Gail Patrick) contacts him. Now in a relationship with Garys business partner Arthur Weldon (Lee Bowman), she wants to return a gift she got from Gary when they were vacationing in Mexico City. Mabel comes to Garys office with the gift, arriving while Arthur is out on business. Gary and Mabel share a taxi back home from the office. Mabel gives the gift, a slip with a loving message from Gary embroidered on it, to Gary. As he exits the taxi he leaves the gift behind, wishing to be rid of it, but Mabel delivers it to his apartment and threatens to show it to his wife if he doesnt reveal that they had a romance in Mexico City. The following weekend the two couples visit Arthurs sister Martha (Charlotte Greenwood), bringing another couple, Alicia and Jimmy Larchmont (Binnie Barnes and John Hubbard). Geraldine notices that Gary is acting suspiciously and keeps an eye on him. For a sum of money, Gary gets Boris the waiter (Mischa Auer) to sneak into Mabels room and steal the slip back from her.  Boris manages to get into the room and find the slip. That evening he gives it to Gary, who drops it into his dinner-jacket pocket. The slip falls out of the pocket while Gary is dancing with his wife, and he quickly stuffs it down a vase to avoid discovery. Sure of himself, he tells Mabel hell tell Geraldine about their past as soon as she brings him the slip. When Gary plucks the slip from the vase, he notices that its the wrong one. When Geraldine goes off to phone her mother for advice about Garys strange behavior, Alicia deliberately flirts with him to see whats going on. He tells her the secret, but she misunderstands: she thinks she has an illegitimate child. Mabel discovers that her room has had a visitor and tells Martha about the slip and Mexico City. Gary and Boris make another attempt to steal the slip back, entering Mabels room through the window, but Mabel interrupts them and they must hide under the bed. Geraldine tells the others that she has spotted an intruder on the roof, and Martha gets her shotgun to fend him off. Noticing that Alicia is showing far too much interest in Gary, her husband Jimmy suspects that they are having an affair. Gary and Boris eventually manage to escape from Mabels bedroom when she leaves, and they manage to find the right slip. While Gary holds it, Jimmy comes into the room and assuming hes holding Alicias slip. There is a knock on the door and the three men all hide under the bed, unaware that it is Arthur. Mabel comes into the room again and discovers the men hiding under her bed. Boris escapes up onto the roof, but Martha fires her gun at him, making him climb back in through the window. Geraldine faints onto the floor and spots her husband under Mabels bed. The next day Gary is sitting alone and abandoned in the library when Martha comes in carrying her maids sisters baby in her arms. Since Martha is going to the maids wedding reception, she asks Gary to watch the baby for her. Martha tells Gary she has disposed of the slip by giving it to her maid Priscilla (Jane Lambert) as a wedding gift. Alicia and Arthur see him holding the baby and believe its his illegitimate child. Gary and Boris make one last attempt to retrieve the slip by crashing the wedding, and they accidentally interrupt the ceremony. Boris tries to take the slip off Priscillas wrist, but the groom knocks him out. Geraldine is about to leave the house when Gary finally returns with the slip. Gary manages to explain that it was this slip he was guilty of and Geraldine believes him. Soon after, Geraldines mother phones again, but Geraldine no longer needs advice.
Up in Mabel's Room (1944 film)
1944