At a junior high school St. Valentines Day dance in 1988, Jeremy Melton, an outcast student, asks four popular girls to dance. The first three girls, Shelley, Lily, and Paige reject him coldly, while the fourth girl, Kate, politely responds "maybe later". Their overweight friend Dorothy accepts Jeremys invitation and they proceed to secretly make out underneath the bleachers. When bully Joe Tulga and his friends discover them, Dorothy claims that Jeremy sexually assaulted her. Joe and his friends publicly strip and severely beat Jeremy, and his nose starts bleeding under the distress. Later, Jeremy is expelled and eventually transferred to a reform school. Thirteen years later, in 2001, Shelley, now a medical student at UCLA, is at the morgue one evening studying on for her medical exam. After receiving a vulgar Valentines card in her locker, she is attacked by a man in a trench coat and Cupid mask. She is cornered in a cooler used to store cadavers, where she attempts to hide in a body bag, but the killer finds her before slitting her throat. The killers nose is seen to bleed as he performs the act. At Shelleys funeral, Kate, Lily, Paige, and Dorothy are questioned. They admit to not having seen her in some time after she moved from San Francisco to Los Angeles. Kate and Paige receive cards in the same fashion as Shelley. Dorothy, who is now much thinner, receives a card which reads "Roses are red, Violets are blue, Theyll need dental records to identify you". Her boyfriend, Campbell, loses his apartment and stays with her. Lily receives a box of chocolates and a card which says "You are what you eat". She then takes a bite of one of the chocolates, and vomits upon realizing that there are maggots inside of it. As the girls attend the exhibit of Lilys artist boyfriend Max, they meet Campbells bitter ex-girlfriend Ruthie, who accuses him of being a con artist. Lily is isolated at the art exhibit and confronted by the killer, who proceeds to shoot her repeatedly with arrows until she falls several floors into a dumpster. When they have not heard from Lily, the others assume she is in Los Angeles on a work trip. Upon contacting the police, they agree that the culprit could be Jeremy Melton. Dorothy admits to her friends that she lied, and that Jeremy never attacked her and she ruined his life by getting him beat up and sent to reform school. Meanwhile, Kates neighbor breaks into Kates apartment to steal her underwear and is murdered by the killer. As Valentines Day approaches, Dorothy is planning a party at her familys large estate. On the morning of the party, the killer murders Campbell with an axe in the basement. The others assume he has simply left Dorothy after dumping her, angering Dorothy, who believes that they are jealous and still look at her as the "fat girl" of the group. After coming to the party to confront Dorothy with the truth about Campbell, Ruthie is thrown through a shower window by the killer who then impales her neck on the glass. At the party, Paige is attacked and trapped in a hot tub by the killer, who proceeds to try and kill her with a drill. After cutting her, he opens the lid of the hot tub and throws the electric drill into the water, electrocuting her to death. The party disintegrates when the power cuts out, and Dorothy and Kate argue over who the killer is. Kate claims that Campbell could be a suspect because they do not know anything about him, while Dorothy counters by accusing Adam, Kates recovering alcoholic on-off boyfriend, who is now a journalist. After being told by Lilys boyfriend that she did not arrive in Los Angeles as planned, Kate realizes she is also probably dead, and calls the detective assigned to the case. After dialing the number, she follows the sound of a ring tone outside the house and discovers the detectives severed head in the pond. Kate becomes convinced that Adam is actually Jeremy, disguised by reconstructive surgery, and goes back into the house, only to find Adam waiting for her. To her surprise, he asks her to dance, and they dance together for a while until she becomes frightened, kneeing him in the groin and escaping. She runs through the house, discovering the corpses of Paige and Ruthie. She locates a gun, but someone in the Cupids mask jumps out and runs into Kate, resulting in knocking the gun from her hand and sending them both tumbling down a staircase. The supposed killer arises and is shot by Adam who appears at the top of the stairs using Kates gun. As a shocked and confused Kate apologizes profusely, Adam pulls off the Cupids mask to reveal the killer as Dorothy. Adam forgives Kate, explaining that childhood trauma can lead to lifelong anger and some people are eventually forced to act on that anger. As Kate and Adam wait for the police to arrive, they hug as Adam says he has always loved her. Moments later, as Kate closes her eyes as they wait for the police to arrive, his nose begins to bleed, indicating that he is Jeremy Melton after all.
Valentine (film)
2001