The film begins with a mock newsreel sequence showing the chaos around the death of 31-year-old film star Rudolph Valentino (Rudolf Nureyev). Thousands of fans mob the funeral home until order is restored, at which point the important women in Valentinos life come to mourn. Each remembers him via flashbacks. The first of these women Bianca de Saulles (Emily Bolton) who knew Valentino when he was a taxi dancer, and gigolo in New York City. He shares with her his dream of owning an orange grove in California. After mobsters rob him, he decides he must make the move west. Next is a young movie executive and screenwriter named June Mathis (Felicity Kendal), who has an unrequited love for Valentino. She first meets Valentino in California, where he upsets Mr. Fatty (William Hootkins) by grabbing the starlet next to Arbuckle and romancing her into becoming his first wife, Jean Acker (Carol Kane). Ackers glamorous and luxurious life, made possible by acting in movies, motivates Valentino to try acting himself. Mathis recalls seeing him in a bit part in a movie and, based on that alone, recommending him for a larger role in her next project, The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. The hugely successful 1921 film launches Valentino to superstardom, and she is proud to have discovered him. Back at the funeral, Alla Nazimova (Leslie Caron) makes a flamboyant entrance. She proceeds to make a scene and, when the photographers ask her to repeat it for the cameras, she obliges. Nazimova claims a relationship with Valentino and recalls working on Camille with him. Next Natacha Rambova (Michelle Phillips) enters and tells reporters that, even though she and Valentino are physically separated, they are still close via the spirit world. Her flashback shows that she was at first Nazimovas lover, but that, realizing Valentinos star would far outweigh Nazimovas, she decided to take advantage of Valentinos infatuation with her to do some social climbing. During the filming of The Sheik, she seduces Valentino with a seven veils dance. Despite knowing he is in the midst of divorcing Acker, she insists on going to Mexico so they can marry. Once they return to the states, Valentino is arrested for bigamy. Because Jesse Lasky (Huntz Hall) refuses to pay bail for Valentino, he has to spend the night in jail, where the guards deny him bathroom privileges and, with the other prisoners, taunt him about his lack of masculinity. The result is his complete humiliation. On the set of Monsieur Beaucaire, Rambova and Sidney Olcott (John Justin) take over directing. Two stage hands, wondering if Rambova calls the shots in bed, too, toss a pink powder puff onto Valentinos lap. Rambova demands that whoever did it come forward or she and Valentino will walk off the set for good. Valentino finishes the picture, but Rambova insists he refuse future work at Paramount until Lasky meets certain demands. Lasky suspends them and they end up broke. A man named George Melford (Seymour Cassel) approaches them; Melford is meant to be Valentinos real-life manager, George Ullman. He offers to help them book personal appearances for Mineralava, a beauty product company. The tour is a success, and, with Melfords help, Valentino and Rambova negotiate a good deal with Lasky. A dramatic moment comes when Valentino reads a newspaper article questioning his manhood. Earlier, the film shows Valentino dancing with the young Vaslav Nijinsky (Anthony Dowell) in a way that casts doubt on Valentinos sexuality. Whatever his true attractions are, the article outrages Valentino, who challenges the reporter to a duel. For legal reasons the duel becomes a boxing match. Rory ONeil (Peter Vaughn), who just happens to be a professional boxer, stands in for the reporter. The fight becomes a ballet of sorts, and flashbacks to the dance with Nijinsky parallel the match. Valentino eventually lands a blow which wins him the fight. However, he now begins to exhibit signs of an ulcer. ONeil asks for a rematch, this time a drinking contest. Despite his ulcer, Valentino accepts. Although Valentino defeats ONeil again, his excessive drinking is too much for the ulcer, which perforates when he returns to his home that night. He dies crawling on the floor unable to reach an orange he had drunkenly played with and dropped on the floor (representing his failed dream of growing an orange grove) The film ends with a shot of Valentinos body on a slab in a mortuary as the credits roll.
Valentino (1977 film)
1977