Jonathan "Mox" Moxon (James Van Der Beek) is an intelligent and academically gifted backup quarterback for the West Canaan High School football team. Despite his relative popularity at school, easy friendships with other players and smart and sassy girlfriend Jules Harbor (Amy Smart), he is dissatisfied with his life. He wants to leave Texas to go to school at Brown University. He is constantly at odds with his football-obsessed father, Sam (Thomas F. Duffy), and dreads playing it under legendary coach Bud Kilmer (Jon Voight), a verbally abusive, controlling authoritarian who believes in winning at all costs. He has a strong track record as coach: in 30 years of coaching at West Canaan, he has won two state titles and 22 district championships, and only cares about winning his 23rd. His philosophy finally takes its toll on all-state starting quarterback, Lance Harbor (Paul Walker), Moxs best friend and Juless brother, who has earned a football scholarship to play for Florida State. He is manipulated by Kilmer into taking anesthetic shots on an injured knee that finally succumbs to failure and results in even greater injury after getting sacked during a game. He is rushed to the hospital, where doctors are appalled at the massive amount of scar tissue found under his knee and determine that the effects of the injury are permanent and will prevent him from being able to play football for a year and a half, costing him his FSU scholarship. Mox, who has accompanied Lance to the hospital, is shocked when Kilmer feigns ignorance to Lances doctors about his knee problems, when in fact Kilmer ordered the trainer to inject the shots. In need of a new quarterback, he reluctantly names Mox to replace Lance as captain and starting quarterback. The move brings unexpected dividends for him, one of them being Darcy Sears (Ali Larter), Lances cheerleader girlfriend, who is interested in marrying a football player in order to escape small-town life. She even goes so far as to attempt to seduce Mox, sporting a "bikini" made of whipped cream over her otherwise naked body, but he rebuffs her as politely as he can and helps to cheer her up by telling her that she can get out of West Canaan on her own without anyones help. Disgusted with Kilmer and not feeling a strong need to win, Mox starts calling his own plays on the field without Kilmers approval and takes his group of friends and teammates, including Lance, out to a strip club on the night before a game, which they subsequently lose due to poor play from still being hungover. He also chides his father, Sam, screaming at him, "I dont want your life!" Sam had been a football player at West Canaan under Kilmer and although Kilmer dismissed him as having no talent nor courage, he still respected and obeyed him. When Kilmer becomes aware that Mox has earned a full academic scholarship to Brown, he threatens him that if he continues to disobey and disrespect him, he will alter his transcripts in order to reverse the decision on his scholarship. Kilmers lack of concern for his players continues, resulting in an emotional breakdown of offensive guard, Billy Bob (Ron Lester), who had suffered a head injury weeks earlier (Billy Bob had missed a block when he passed out on the field as a result of this injury after Kilmer pressured him out onto the field, which allowed the hit on Lance that crippled his knee, in which Kilmer blames him for). When starting tailback Wendell Brown (Eliel Swinton), another friend of Moxs, is injured on the field during the final game of the season, Kilmer pressures him during halftime into taking a shot of cortisone, as he had done with Lance, to deaden the pain from his injury and allow him to continue at the risk of permanent injury. Desperate to be recruited by a good college, Wendell agrees. Mox intervenes and threatens Kilmer that hell quit the team if the needle enters Wendells knee. Undaunted, Kilmer reminds him about altering his transcripts and orders Charlie Tweeder (Scott Caan), starting wide receiver and friend of Mox, Lance and Wendell, to replace Mox, but he also quits. Billy Bob also steps in to defend his teammates. Mox tells Kilmer that the only way they will return to the field for the second half is without him. Realizing that he will be forced to forfeit the game, he loses control and physically assaults Mox. The other players intercede and then refuse to take to the field. Knowing his loss of control has cost him his credibility, Kilmer tries in vain to rally support and spark the teams spirit into trusting him, but none of the players follow him out of the locker room. He continues down the hall, and upon seeing that no one following him, turns the other direction and into his office. After an inspiring speech from Mox to rally the team, they take the field under the leadership of Lance, who takes over coaching duties for the second half, and manage to win the game. In a voice-over epilogue, Mox recounts several characters aftermaths, including the fact that Kilmer left town and never coached again despite his statue still standing (only because it was too heavy to move). Lance became a successful coach (presumably Head Coach for the Coyotes after Kilmers departure), Wendell earned a football scholarship to Grambling, and Mox took his scholarship and graduated from Brown University, but he never played football again.
Varsity Blues (film)
1999