Before his wedding to fiancée Laura (Cameron Diaz), Kyle Fisher (Jon Favreau) organizes a bachelor party in a Las Vegas hotel with his friends: Charles Moore (Leland Orser), Robert Boyd (Christian Slater), brothers Adam and Michael Berkow (Daniel Stern and Jeremy Piven). Michael pays Tina (Kobe Tai), a stripper/prostitute, for sex in the bathroom who dies during sex after her head is accidentally impaled by a clothes hook on a door. Soon thereafter, a security guard comes to investigate the ruckus and discovers Tinas corpse. In desperation, Boyd stabs the guard to death. Boyd convinces the group to dismember the bodies, bury them in the desert, and never speak of it again. At the rehearsal dinner, Adam cracks under the pressure, leading to a confrontation with Michael outside. The fight is broken up and Michael is convinced to leave. While leaving, he tries to ram his jeep into Adams beloved minivan. Adam runs in front of his van and is crushed in the collision. In the hospital, Adam whispers something to his wife Lois (Jeanne Tripplehorn) before dying, as Boyd looks on through a glass window. Lois demands answers about what happened in Las Vegas. Fisher makes up a story about Adam sleeping with a prostitute. Boyd, suspecting she does not believe them, kills Lois. Later, Boyd calls Fisher and Moore to bring Michael to the house, where he kills him. He concocts a story about a Michael/Lois/Adam love triangle to answer any interrogation by police. After these events and being named beneficiary of Adam and Lois estate, Fisher breaks down and confesses the story to Laura, who demands that the wedding she has dreamed about proceed as planned. On the wedding day, Boyd confronts Fisher, demanding the money from Adams life insurance policy. Fisher refuses and a fight ensues which ends with Laura bludgeoning Boyd. During the ceremony, Fisher and Moore realize that Boyd has the wedding rings. Moore goes to retrieve them, opening a door that knocks Boyd down a stairwell where he dies. Laura demands Fisher bury Boyds body in the desert and then ensure no loose ends remain by killing Moore. Ultimately, Fisher cannot go through with the act and as he drives home, he loses focus and crashes into an oncoming car. After the collision, Fisher has had both his legs amputated below the knee and Moore is brain damaged and confined to a motorized wheelchair, leaving Laura to care for all of them in addition to raising Adams sons. As Laura watches Fishers futile attempt to control the two boys, she realizes her life and dreams are totally ruined and suffers a nervous breakdown as she runs out of the house and collapses screaming in the street.
Very Bad Things
1998