All of the people, animals and birds within the quiet coastal town of Midwich in Californias Marin County fall unconscious for six hours one day at exactly 10am. Following this "blackout", ten females are mysteriously pregnant, including a virgin as well as a married woman who has not been sexually active for months. None of the women seek abortions, and later all the babies are born simultaneously on one night - five boys and five girls, though one female is stillborn. The children are all healthy and sound, but have pale skin, unusually soft, flat-sided platinum blonde hair; fierce intellect, and cobalt eyes. However, they do not appear to possess a conscience or personalities. The children display eerie psychic abilities that can result in violent and deadly consequences whenever they experience pain or provocation. The children soon "pair off", except for one of the boys, David, whose intended partner was the stillborn girl. As a result of this imbalance, David is the runt of the group. Although he resembles the other children and retains some degree of psychic power, David is smaller, and is unlike the rest of the children in that he has a capacity for human emotion, and compassion. He and his mother Jill McGowan (the local school teacher) share a brief conversation about this, displaying empathy and remorse. The childrens leader is Mara, the daughter of a local physician, Dr. Alan Chaffee. Even as a young girl, Mara exhibited vengeful tendencies with regard to the use of her abilities. One day Maras food was too hot for her so she threw her dish on the floor and then, using her powers, she made her mother stick her entire forearm into a large pot of boiling water. Even after Jill pulled Barbara away from the pot, Barbara would keep trying to submerge her arm in the scalding water. A short time later, a disconsolate Barbara is seen, by Alan, walking away from their house and toward a nearby ocean cliff. Mara is in the house, in her crib, but uses her mind to get her mother to commit suicide by jumping off the cliff. Alan only realizes what happened when he looks back out the window and sees that Barbara is no longer standing at the edge of the cliff. The children, who are by now known to have a hive mind, eventually move to the local barn as their classroom and for survival. Soon it is learned that there are other colonies of blackout children in foreign countries, but due to their inhuman nature they were quickly eliminated, in some cases at the cost of destroying the entire town. The scientific team in Midwich quickly flee the town to escape the growing chaos. Government scientist, Dr. Susan Verner, is forced to show the children the preserved stillborn baby she secretly kept to study, and the preserved corpse is seen to be undeniably alien. The children collectively force her to fatally stab herself. An angry mob gathers to kill the children, but the leader is forced to set herself on fire and burns to death, and later the state police are mentally controlled into shooting each other in a chaotic gun battle. In order to rid the town of the children, Alan devises a plan: to detonate a briefcase of timed explosives inside the childrens classroom. By thinking of a brick wall, he is able to create a mental barrier and keep the presence of the time-bomb a secret from the children. Jill begs him to spare David because he is not like the others. Alan attempts to do this by asking David to leave the classroom to get his notebook from his car. The children begin to suspect that Alan is hiding something, and they slowly "destroy" the wall. Finally, Jill shows up, but the children stop her and attempt to use mind control. David, tired of this, rushes to her defense and knocks Mara over. The children turn on David, but Jill rushes him from the building. As soon as the children discover that Alan is hiding his knowledge of the bomb, it detonates in an enormous explosion, killing Alan and the eight alien children. Jill and David, however, are safe in a car fleeing the site; she says that they will both move to a place where nobody knows them. David looks off into the distance as they drive away.
Village of the Damned (1995 film)
1995