Deborah Ballin, a feminist activist, inspires the wrath of misogynistic psychopath and serial killer Colt Hawker, on a TV talk show. He attacks her, but she survives and is sent to County General Hospital. Colt begins stalking her. Deborah befriends nurse Sheila Munroe, who admires her devotion to womens rights. Colt murders an elderly patient and a nurse. He overhears Sheilas opinions on Deborah and "that bastard" who attacked her. Colt decides to focus his attention on Sheila, stalking her and her children at home. Colt courts a young girl, Lisa, and then brutally beats, tortures, and rapes her. The next day, Deborah discovers that the patient and nurse have been killed, so she suspects her attacker is back to finish the job. She tries to convince her boss, Gary Baylor, and Sheila that she is not safe, but both think she is paranoid. Colt visits his father, who was disfigured years ago by his mother, explaining his hatred for self-defending women. He tries to kill Deborah again, but is thwarted by her security. A frantic Sheila is paged and finds Lisa, whose wounds she had treated, waiting for her. Lisa says she knows the identity of Deborahs attacker, and where he lives. Before she can alert anyone, Sheila receives an ominous phone call from Colt, warning her that he is in her house with her daughter and babysitter. She sends Lisa to warn Deborah, then rushes home, and finds her daughter and babysitter safe in bed. She places a call to Deborah, but Colt springs forth, stabs Sheila in the stomach and pushes her to the ground, phone to her ear, torturing her for Deborah to hear. He moves toward Sheilas daughter. Sheila can only scream in terror as he walks out, leaving her to die. Colt goes home, where he devises one last plan to get to Deborah. He busts a beer bottle underneath his arm, wounding himself badly. Gary and Deborah have an ambulance sent to Sheilas house. Still alive, but badly wounded, she is rushed to the hospital. Gary accompanies the police to Colts apartment, where they discover photos of his previous victims, as well as of Deborah and Sheila. They also learn that the wounded Hawker has been taken to County General. Sheila is taken into the emergency room and Colt is wheeled in. After being bandaged and medicated, he sneaks away to find Deborah and attacks her. She flees to an elevator. In the basement, she goes into a radiography room, finding a helpless Sheila, all alone, waiting for X-rays. Realizing she must lure Colt away to protect Sheila, Deborah leaves and deliberately gives her location away. Colt approaches the curtain she is hiding behind and Deborah stabs hims with a switchblade, killing him. Sheila is wheeled to safety, while Gary comforts Deborah, who faints at the sight of what she has done.
Visiting Hours
1982