Adventurer Jungle Jim (Johnny Weissmuller) and Sergeant Bono (Rick Vallin) are taking the British Museums Phyllis Bruce (Jean Byron) on a tour around an African jungle. They come to witness a sacrificial ritual about to take place. Jungle Jim hurriedly prevents chief religious official Wombulu (Charles Horvath) from slaughtering an African native as an offering to the tiger god Tambura. The furious voodoo practitioner lunges for Jungle Jim with a knife, only to be shot by hunter Abel Peterson (James Seay). Peterson invites Jim, Bono, and Bruce to stay at his lodging. However, Jim receives a last-minute notification that Major Bill Green of the United States (Robert Bray) has come with Commissioner Kingston (Richard Kipling) to meet businessman Karl Werner (Michael Fox). The two army personnel are looking to recover a stolen collection of artworks. Werner, who operates in the jungle, is believed to possess knowledge of the artworks whereabouts. Jim is assigned to lead the way to Werner. Werner claims to not know anything about the looted art pieces; Green rebuts him by labelling him as a "Nazi" who aided the looters. Just then, Green spots Peterson and his men, who happen to be passing by. The army major informs Jim that they are actually notorious thieves specialising in artworks. The two camps battle and at last it is Petersons team which prevails. Werner, Green, Kingston, and Jim are locked up in a cupboard. Werner somehow breaks loose and makes his way to the airfield. He dashes up the plane Peterson and his henchmen are planning to escape on. After overpowering the pilot, he captains the plane himself and flies back to the jungle. The plane catches fire just as it is reaching the destination. Werner courageously jumps out, along with an exotic dancer who happens to be on board too. Her tiger also lands in the jungle. The natives, who are about to massacre Jim, see the tiger and kneel on their knees, believing it to be Tambura. Meanwhile, Wombulu and Peterson have started an alliance. They hatch a plan to kidnap Werner. At the same time, Jungle Jim and his acquaintances have escaped. Jims eagle-eyed pet chimpanzee, Tamba, spots an obscure dynamite trap laid out for them; Jim defuses it. From afar they see the dancers tiger on a wild rampage. As more natives get killed by the tiger, Peterson grabs Werner and runs away. Jungle Jim stops Peterson in his tracks and rescues Werner from the hunters clutches. The enraged African natives run towards Peterson and his men, killing them. Jim and the rest barely manage to escape. The jungle explorer quick-wittedly resets the dynamite trap. It explodes and kills the natives. With the voodoo tribe dissolved, Major Green professes his love for Bruce.
Voodoo Tiger
1952