The cartoon opens with two castaways adrift on a small raft in the middle of the ocean, underscored with "Asleep in the Deep". Delirious from hunger, they start imagining each other (or even their own limbs) as food. They spot an island in the distance and rush ashore, underscored by "Down Where the Trade Winds Play", a song used several times in the cartoon (and in others, such as Gorilla My Dreams), where they meet Bugs Bunny, who is munching on his carrot as usual. To his friendly, "Whats the good word, strangers?" they answer "FOOD!" and start after Bugs, who leaps away on a vine with a Tarzan yell. Chasing Bugs through the jungle, they spy him, semi-disguised as one of the natives, dancing. Bugs welcomes them, "Ah! White Men! Welcome to Humuhumunukunukuapuaaaa Island." He then speaks in Polynesian-accented nonsense, a long stretch of which is subtitled simply, "Whats up Doc?" and a very short segment is subtitled, "Now is the time for every good man to come to the aid of his party." The tall, skinny man says, "Well, thanks!" which the subtitles translate to "Ofa eno maua te ofe popaa." The short, fat man, who can actually see the subtitles, comments, "Gee, did you say that?" The skinny man shrugs. Bugs and the two men prepare the feast as they sing "Were gonna have roast rabbit" (to the tune of "Ring Around the Roses"). Bugs realizes hes the roast rabbit and climbs back up the tree. Bugs then tricks them by substituting a skinned chicken for himself in the large cooking pot. He taunts them with the chicken, using it as a marionette in order to make the two men think the chicken is possessed by a ghost, until the strings become tangled and he has to make a quick escape. As the castaways wail in frustration, they hear a steam whistle from a ship. As the men leap for joy at the prospect of being saved and trot toward the gangplank, Bugs kisses them goodbye and presents them with leis, then pulls his time-honored switcheroo trick and boards the ship himself. The boat pulls out, leaving the two men on the island, still waving goodbye to Bugs. Realizing theyve been tricked, the Skinny Man slaps the Fat Man (off-camera, following the Hays Office rules) for still yelling "Goodbye!" The two at once imagine each other as a hot dog and a hamburger, chasing each other into the distance as "Aloha Oe" plays on the underscore, and the cartoon irises out.
Wackiki Wabbit
1943