The show chronicles the adventures of a wagon train as it makes its way from Missouri to California. There were 284 episodes in 8 seasons: the first aired on September 18, 1957, and the final segment was broadcast on May 2, 1965. Some of the actors appearing on Wagon Train included Ward Bond as wagon master Major Seth Adams (seasons 1–4), Robert Horton as scout Flint McCullough (seasons 1–5), John McIntire as wagon master Christopher Hale (seasons 4–8), Robert Fuller as scout Cooper Smith (seasons 7–8), Scott Miller as Duke Shannon (seasons 5–7), Michael Burns as Barnaby West (seasons 4–8), Frank McGrath as Charlie Wooster (cook, seasons 1–8), and Terry Wilson as Bill Hawks (seasons 1-8). McIntire replaced Bond as wagon master upon Bonds death at age 57, and Fuller replaced Horton as scout a season after Horton opted to depart, an obvious choice since Fuller had already played a lead in another western series (Laramie on NBC) and physically resembled Horton. Horton and Fuller even shared the same birthday, albeit nine years apart. While Hortons character generally wore a dark hat onscreen, Fuller usually wore a light-colored one in Wagon Train, although this varied occasionally for both actors.  Ward Bond was always billed above Robert Horton in the opening credits, but Horton later rotated top billing with relative newcomer John McIntire, which subsequently continued with McIntire and Robert Fuller rotating top billing from episode to episode when Fuller joined the series in the seventh season in the wake of Hortons departure. During the sixth season, Horton had left and Fuller had not yet replaced him, so McIntire carried the show with the supporting cast. Neither Bond nor McIntire, both veterans of dozens of supporting roles in movies, routinely played the lead in theatrical films, although Bond did in at least one B-picture. Rivals Bond and Horton frequently quarreled on the set, an extensively publicized development at the time, lending an element of verisimilitude to their disputes within the episodes themselves. The series aired for most of its run in black-and-white. That briefly changed during the shows fifth season (1961–62) on NBC, to help promote the sales of parent company RCAs color television sets. These five episodes were aired in color: October 4, 1961: "The Kitty Albright Story" (with Polly Bergen as Albright) November 1, 1961: "The Jenna Douglas Story" (with Carolyn Jones) December 6, 1961: "The Lizbeth Ann Calhoun Story" (with Dana Wynter) February 7, 1962: "The Lonnie Fallon Story" (with Gary Clarke) March 14, 1962: "The Amos Billings Story" (with Paul Fix) The series returned to its original black-and-white format for its first season (1962–63) on ABC, damaging the ratings, but the following season, as the series expanded to 90 minutes, was entirely in color. In the final season the series reverted to both black and white and the 60-minute format. It was one of only a few series ever to switch to color and then revert to black and white. These switches, along with a time slot move to Sunday evenings for the first time, were significant contributors to the declining ratings that led to the series cancellation in the spring of 1965. Throughout its run, the series used the cut-down, shortened wagons common to television series budgets, as opposed to the full-length oxen-drawn Conestoga wagons prominent in a forerunner of the show, the 1930 wagon train film The Big Trail, which features 27-year-old Ward Bond supporting 23-year-old John Wayne. Occasionally film clips from Hollywood movies, depicting a train of Conestogas, were edited into the episodes. In several episodes of the first season Major Adams says the line "Thatll be the day!" which was a tag line said by John Wayne in the 1956 film The Searchers in which Bond also appeared.
Wagon Train
1950