Crosby is cast in a romantic Hawaiian setting as Tony Marvin a publicity agent for Imperial Pineapple Company. The atmosphere is captured from the start with a Hawaiian song over the opening credits and with Tony and his friend Shad, with pet pig Walford, present at a native wedding ceremony where Tony joins in the song. In the boardroom of the Imperial Pineapple Company, the President, J. P. Todhunter, defends Tony against charges of neglecting his duty, pointing out that it was Tony who thought of the idea of the Pineapple Girl contest. The winner of the contest was promised three romantic weeks in Hawaii and her happy impressions are to be syndicated in the press for publicity. Unfortunately it seems Georgia Smith, the girl from Birch Falls who won the Pineapple Girl contest, and her friend Myrtle are bored and intend to return home. The prospect of such adverse publicity enrages J. P. who tells Tony that he must do something to stop the girls leaving. To give a little romantic colour therefore, Tony sings Blue Hawaii outside the girls bungalow helped by a Hawaiian chorus. When Myrtle opens the door he mistakes her for Georgia and is therefore unaware that it is Georgia he later meets at the dockside. Whilst helping to repair the heel of her shoe he accidentally tips her into the water; drenched and angry she, equally unaware of his identity, tells how she came to be in Hawaii and says that she could murder the one who got her into the whole mess. When, shortly afterwards, she and Myrtle are about to board ship bound for home a stranger thrusts into her hand a black pearl and asks her to get it through Customs. Consequently, they are prevented from leaving and Tony and Shad arrive opportunely to offer help. Apparently the pearl is sacred and must be returned to a shrine on a smaller island from which it has been stolen or, according to a native legend, the volcano will erupt and destroy the village. Kimo, a native, says the girls must themselves return the pearl and he takes the four of them in his boat. The whole business has been arranged by Tony to prevent Georgia from returning home and he has also written, in her name, glowing reports for press hand-outs. On the trip across to the island Tony and Georgia sing Blue Hawaii. Meanwhile, J. P. receives a long-distance call from Georgias fiancé, dentist Dr. Quimby, who says that he is coming to fetch her. On the island Georgia offers to hand over the pearl but is told to await the arrival of the High Priest. While they are detained on the island Shad and Myrtle become well acquainted and enliven the scene with comedy episodes involving Walford the pig. Tony, with Hawaiian chorus, sings Sweet Leilani to a little native girl. When the High Priest arrives the pearl is handed over and at a celebration ceremony Georgia sings In a Little Hula Heaven, with Tony singing and whistling a few lines. Myrtle sings Okolehao, the name for a potent native drink. When the volcano continues to rumble and smoke the High Priest announces that the pearl must be fake and arrests Georgia. The volcanos activity is, at Tonys instigation, manufactured by natives maintaining the fire and flames. Tony helps Georgia escape and the four make for the boat. Tony sings Sweet Is the Word for You and it is also sung by Georgia. When she returns to her hotel next day she finds Quimby and her uncle Herman awaiting her and they explain how she has been tricked. Meanwhile, Tony, regretting his actions, has called on J. P. and told him not to publish the articles he has written. When he calls for Georgia he tells her they will be married but she is angry with him and says she will return home with Quimby and her Uncle. When the three are ready to leave, Quimby is tricked by Shad into involvement with the police which results in Quimby being arrested for assault. When, however, Shad tries the same trick on Uncle Herman he himself is arrested. Tony boards the ship and in the next cabin to Georgia whistles Sweet Is the Word for You but she reports him to the purser and he is put off the ship. Myrtle arrives at the jail with Walford disguised as a dog, and pays the fine to release Shad. Tony and Georgia are re-united after he hires an old lady to pose as his mother who visits Georgia aboard ship and persuades her that it is Tony she should marry. Over the closing credits a chorus sings Blue Hawaii and In A Little Hula Heaven.
Waikiki Wedding
1937