A woman named Lisa (Samantha Jones) takes a flight from Montreal to New York City, smuggling bags of heroin sewn inside an old-fashioned doll. When she disembarks, Lisa becomes worried upon seeing a man watching her at the John F. Kennedy International Airport and gives the doll to a fellow passenger, professional photographer Sam Hendrix (Efrem Zimbalist Jr.) for safekeeping. She is roughly escorted away by the man. Later, when she calls Sam about the doll, he and his wife Susy (Audrey Hepburn), who is blind from an auto accident, are unable to find it. A few days later, con artists Mike Talman (Richard Crenna) and Carlino (Jack Weston) arrive at Sam and Susys apartment, believing it to be Lisas. Harry Roat, Jr. (Alan Arkin), the man who met Lisa at the airport, arrives to persuade Talman and Carlino to help him find the doll. After the con men discover Lisas body, Roat blackmails them into helping him dispose of it and convinces them to help him find the doll. The next day, Roat sends Sam on a photography assignment. Once Susy is alone, the criminals begin an elaborate con game, posing as different people to win Susys trust. Implying that Lisa has been murdered and Sam will be suspected, the men persuade Susy to help them find the doll. Mike gives her the number for the phone booth across the street as his own after falsely warning her of a police car outside. Susy grows suspicious of Carlino and Roat. Gloria (Julie Herrod), a girl who lives upstairs, sneaks in to return the doll and tells Susy that there is no police car outside. Susy finally realizes that the three are criminals and hides the doll. She tells them that the doll is at Sams studio and the three leave after Roat cuts the telephone cord. Carlino stays behind to stand guard outside the building. Susy sends Gloria to the bus station to wait for Sam. When she discovers that the telephone cord has been cut, she prepares to defend herself by putting the criminals in the dark along with her, breaking all the bulbs in the apartment except for the safe-light. When Mike returns, he realizes that she knows the truth and demands the doll, but she refuses to cooperate. Mike has come to admire Susy for her quiet strength and ability to stand up to them, despite her disability. He admits to her that he and his confederates are part of a criminal plot, while Roat is the particular danger. He assures her that he has sent Carlino to kill Roat. However, having anticipated their plan, Roat has killed Carlino instead and then kills Mike. Intent on acquiring the doll, Roat threatens to set the apartment on fire. Susy finally agrees to give him the doll but throws a chemical at Roats face and unplugs the safe light as the apartment is plunged into darkness. Roat obtains light by opening the refrigerator. Susy, realizing that she has lost the battle, pulls the doll out from its hiding place and hands it to him. While Roat is distracted with it, Susy is able to arm herself with a large kitchen knife. Roat then goes to rape Susy but she stabs him and flees. She is unable to escape the chained front door and stumbles to the kitchen window to scream for help, but Roat grabs her ankle. She wrenches free and conceals herself behind the refrigerator door. Just as he stands to stab her, she unplugs the refrigerator, leading to total darkness yet again. We hear Susy scream in the dark. The police arrive with Sam and Gloria, and Susy is found, unharmed, behind the refrigerator door. She embraces Sam, crying. Roat is finally dead. The movie was filmed partly on location "St Lukes Place 27B (now nr 5) in Greenwich Village New York City.
Wait Until Dark (film)
1967