Amelia (Keener) and Laura (Heche) are childhood best friends. Amelia is left feeling vulnerable when Laura and her boyfriend Frank get engaged. She begins to date Bill (Kevin Corrigan), the local clerk at the video rental store she frequents. Though she initially is off put by his looks and his obsession with scifi and horror films she begins to grow attracted to him when she learns he is working on a screenplay about the life of Colette. The two have sex, however while Amelia is in the bathroom she receives a call from Laura asking how her date was with "the ugly guy". Hurt after hearing this Bill abruptly leaves. Meanwhile, since becoming engaged Laura, a therapist, has begun to fantasize about one of her patients. She also allows the waiter at her local coffee shop to flirt with her and begins to pick fights with her fiancé. Amelia becomes obsessed with Bill after sleeping with him but quickly becomes hurt and angry as he never calls her. She asks her friend and former boyfriend Andrew (Liev Schreiber) why they broke up and he confesses that she places too much importance on her boyfriends. After two weeks Amelia finally goes to the video rental store and snaps when Bill is polite but distant towards her. He chases her down and tells her he heard from Lauras message that she called him ugly. Amelia, Laura and Frank go to Amelias parents country cottage where Laura and Frank plan to get married. While there Laura and Frank fight causing Frank to leave in the middle of the night. Amelia receives obscene phone calls and calls Andrew, making him take the train to come and protect her. After Andrew answers the phone causing the caller to stop calling Amelia and Andrew talk get drunk, talk about their past relationship and then go swimming together. Laura and Frank go to a dinner where they hope to reconcile. Frank gives Laura his biopsied mole in a box as a present as their last fight involved her anger at him for not getting it checked by a doctor. Laura finds the present disgusting and leaves without making up with him. Meanwhile, Amelia goes to see Bill at the video store where she learns that he is dating his ex. She goes home where she and Andrew have dinner together and he explains how he broke up with a girl he was having phone sex with. He then kisses Amelia and the two sleep together and she gives him the black leather pants that she bought him as a Christmas present that she never gave him since they broke up before Christmas. Despite the fact that she has not reconciled with Frank, Laura continues to plan her wedding. After going to see Amelia after a disastrous meeting with a wedding makeup artist the two end up fighting as Amelia accuses Laura of abandoning their friendship. The two finally sit down to reconnect and Amelia tells Laura about reconnecting with Andrew before urging her to go make up with Frank. Laura takes her advice to heart. Laura reconnects with Frank. On her wedding day she allows Amelia to do her makeup and hair like they had originally planned. Laura tells Amelia that she believes that she and Andrew are going to make it.The two leave to go to the ceremony hand in hand.
Walking and Talking
1996