In 1968, as an audience of inmates at Folsom State Prison cheer for Johnny Cashs band, he waits backstage near a table saw, reminding him of his early life. In 1944, Johnny, then known as J.R., is raised on a cotton farm in Dyess, Arkansas with his brother Jack, father Ray, and mother Carrie. J.R. is known for his singing of hymns, while his brother Jack trains himself to become a pastor. While Jack is sawing wood for a neighbor with a table saw, J.R. goes fishing until he is spotted and reprimanded by his father for wandering off. Both J.R. and Ray return home to see Jack dying after being severely injured by the saw in an accident. In 1950, J.R. enlists in the Air Force as Johnny Cash, and is stationed in West Germany. He purchases a guitar, and in 1952, finds solace in writing songs, one of which he develops as "Folsom Prison Blues". After his discharge, Cash returns to the United States and marries his girlfriend, Vivian Liberto. The couple moves to Memphis, Tennessee, where Cash works as a door-to-door salesman to support his growing family. He walks past a recording studio, which inspires him to organize a band to play gospel music. Cashs band auditions for Sam Phillips, the owner of Sun Records. After they play "Folsom Prison Blues", the band receives a contract, and launch to stardom at the beginning of the rock and roll era. The band begins touring as Johnny Cash and the Tennessee Two. On tour, Johnny meets June Carter, with whom he falls in love. Cash begins spending more time with June, who divorces her first husband, Carl Smith. After his attempt to woo June fails, Cash starts abusing drugs and alcohol. After his behavior reaches a bottom during a performance with June, they separate. Later, over Vivians objections, Johnny persuades June to come out of semi-retirement, and tour with him. The tour is a success, but backstage, Vivian becomes critical of Junes influence. After one performance in Las Vegas, Johnny and June sleep together. The next morning, she notices Johnny taking pills, and doubts her choices. At that evenings concert, Johnny, upset by Junes apparent rejection, behaves erratically, and eventually passes out on stage. June disposes of Johnnys drugs, and begins to write "Ring of Fire", describing her feelings for him and her pain at watching him descend into addiction. Returning to California, Cash travels to Mexico to purchase more drugs, and is arrested. Cashs marriage to Vivian implodes; the pair divorce and Cash moves to Nashville in 1966. Trying to reconcile with June, Johnny purchases a large house near a lake in Hendersonville. His parents and the extended Carter family arrive for Thanksgiving, at which time Ray dismisses his sons achievements and behavior. After the meal, Junes mother encourages her daughter to help Cash. He goes into detox and wakes with June; she says they have been given a second chance. Though not married, the two begin spending most of their time with each other. Cash discovers that most of his fan mail is from prisoners, who are impressed with his outlaw image. He proposes to Columbia Records that he will record an album live inside Folsom Prison. Despite Columbias doubts, Cash says that he will perform, and his label can use the tapes if they wish. At the Folsom Prison concert, Cash says that he has been sympathetic to prisoners, explaining that his arrest for drug possession helped him to relate to them. With this success, Cash embarks on a tour with June and his band. On the bus, he stops to talk with June and proposes to her, but she turns him down. At the next concert, June says she will only speak with him on stage. Cash later performs "Ring of Fire" on stage. After the song, Cash invites June to a duet and stops in the middle, saying he cannot sing "Jackson" any more unless June agrees to marry him. June accepts and they share a passionate embrace on stage.
Walk the Line
2005