In 1880 the Rafferty family is traveling by covered wagon across the Mojave Desert with their sheep when young Chito hears a voice crying out for help. A boy named Adam Larey stumbles in from the unforgiving sands of Death Valley and leads them to his parents burning wagon, where they discover the body of his murdered father—the mother having died earlier that day. The familys ten thousand dollars and a framed picture of his mother are missing. The only clue left behind is the crescent J brand on the murderers dead horse. Angered by the loss, Adam vows to avenge his fathers death. The kindhearted Raffertys adopt Adam and raise him as their own. Ten years later, Adam (James Warren) returns to Randsburg, California and the Rafferys sheep ranch after a year of wandering in search of his fathers killer. Adam and Chito (Richard Martin) have remained close through the years, and Mama and Papa Rafferty are overjoyed at their stepsons homecoming. The next day in town, Adam notices the crescent J brand on a suitcase owned by Jeanie Collinshaw (Audrey Long) who is passing through town. When he questions her about the brand, her travel companion knocks him out, and the two board a stagecoach to Pichacho, Arizona. After he revives, Adam learns the stagecoachs destination and soon heads off to Arizona with Chito. When they arrive in Pichacho, Adam spots a horse bearing the crescent J brand outside a saloon and confronts the owner, Jeanies reckless brother Jay Collinshaw (Robert Clarke). When Jay goes for his gun, Adam shoots him in the wrist in self-defense, then leaves the saloon with Chito and checks into a local hotel. Unknown to Jay, the card dealer and Guerd Eliott (Harry Woods), the forman at the Crescent J Ranch, have been cheating him in cards. That night Adam returns to his hotel and finds Jeanie waiting for him. She invites him to the ranch on behalf of her uncle, Jim Collinshaw (Robert Barrat), who owns the ranch. The next day they meet on the trail as planned and ride together to the ranch. Along the way a hidden gunman fires a shot at Adam but misses. Later at the ranch, Jeanie introduces Adam to Collinshaw, who is confined to a wheelchair. When Collinshaw offers Adam a job keeping Jay out of trouble, he accepts the offer as long as Chito is also hired. After Adam leaves, Collinshaw takes out a small framed photo of Adams mother. The next day at the town hall, Adam examines the deed to the Crescent J Ranch and discovers that Collinshaw purchased the ranch ten years earlier for ten thousand dollars—the exact amount stolen from Adams family. Convinced that Collinshaw killed his father, Adam decides to confront the old man at Jeanies birthday party later that night. At the party, Jay sneaks into his uncles office and steals a thousand dollars and rides off to town to gamble. When Adam arrives, he meets with Collinshaw and accuses him of murdering his father. The old man acknowledges the crime, explaining that he killed his father out of revenge because he took away Adams mother, the woman Collinshaw loved. He hands Adam the framed photo of his mother. As hes about to shoot Collinshaw, Adam thinks about Jeanie, whom he loves, and knows he cannot go through with his plan of revenge. Collinshaw shows Adam his will and confession. Realizing he can never live happily with Jeanie as long as Collinshaw is in their lives, he decides to return to California, but agrees to try and recover the stolen money from Jay. After Adam leaves, Guerd Eliott enters Collinshaws office and learns that the old man is about to confess to the Larey murder and that he has left his entire estate to Adam in his will. Knowing the old mans confession would implicate Adam if he were murdered, Eliott shoots Collinshaw dead and then organizes a posse to arrest Adam for the crime. Meanwhile at the saloon, Adam proves that the dealer has been cheating with marked cards and confiscates the money stolen from Jay. On his way out of town, Adam is arrested by Eliott and the posse and taken to jail. That night, Jeanie visits Adam in jail and reveals that her brother admitted to stealing the thousand dollars. She pleads with him to tell the truth and save himself, and stop protecting Jay. Soon Chito arrives and breaks Adam out of jail. Adam rides off alone, goes to Eliotts room, and forces him at gunpoint to accompany him on foot into the desert. Weakened and exhausted, Eliott admits that he murdered Collinshaw just as Jeanie, Chito, and the posse arrive. Jeanie shows everyone her uncles confession, which contains on the back his last handwritten note acknowledging that Adam, out of his love for Jeanie, decided not to avenge the murder of his father. Sometime later, Chito, Adam, and Adams new bride Jeanie return to Rafferys sheep ranch and are welcomed with love by Mama and Papa Rafferty. Adam assures Mama that this time he is home to stay.
Wanderer of the Wasteland (1945 film)
1945