Utilizing an alternative timeline and applying multiverse theory, the story exists in a nearly identical, but separate America, whilst slightly mimicking both historically significant time periods. Initially starting in 1939, during the fading Interwar Period, The "Minutemen," a team of costumed crime fighters, formed in response to a rise in costumed gangs and criminals; this creation and timeline occurring prior to, and similarly covering the 1960s Vietnam Era through mid-1980s Cold War Era America, saw the rise of The "Watchmen" team formed decades later. Their existence and influence dramatically affected world events: Doctor Manhattans powers have helped the United States win the Vietnam War, and given the West a strategic near-peer parity military advantage over the Soviet Union, which by 1985 threatens to escalate the Cold War into a fully committed thermonuclear war. Additionally, the Comedian has suppressed evidence of the Watergate Scandal, allowing President Richard Nixon to stand for, be re-elected, and serve multiple consecutive Presidential Terms. Owing to success in ending the War, dodging The Watergate Incident, and overwhelming support sees a full Repeal of the 22nd Amendment. Eventually, growing anti-vigilante sentiment sweeps the U.S. general public, coupled with a massive nationwide police officer strike, enables the passing of, and U.S. Senate ratifying, the Keene Act, which was previously proposed and failed to garner support, but now a Federal Law deeming all "costumed adventuring" and "vigilantism", leads to outlawing masked crime-fighters and their actions. While many of the heroes retire, Dr Manhattan and the Comedian operate as government-sanctioned agents, and Rorschach continues to operate outside the law. While investigating the murder of government agent Edward Blake, Rorschach discovers that Blake was the Comedian, and theorizes that someone may be attempting to eliminate former costumed heroes. He warns his retired comrades—Daniel Dreiberg (Nite Owl II), Dr. Manhattan, and the latters lover, also a former heroine Laurie Jupiter (Silk Spectre II). Dr. Manhattan ignores Rorschach, and Dreiberg is skeptical, but relays this information to vigilante-turned-billionaire Adrian Veidt (Ozymandias), who also dismisses it. Following a backlash, Dr Manhattan exiles himself to Mars, giving the Soviets the confidence to invade Afghanistan. Rorschachs theory appears to be justified when Veidt narrowly avoids an assassination attempt, and Rorschach finds himself framed for the murder of a former villain named Moloch. When Rorschach is arrested, his identity is revealed to be Walter Kovacs, and he is sent to prison. Jupiter goes to stay with Dreiberg after breaking up with Dr. Manhattan. The two become lovers and decide to come out of retirement. After helping Rorschach break out of prison, Jupiter is confronted by Dr. Manhattan, who transports her to Mars. As he probes her memories, he discovers that she is Blakes daughter, and realizes the miracle of her life, created in spite of her parents turbulent relationship. He then returns to Earth with her. Investigating the conspiracy, Rorschach and Dreiberg discover that Veidt is behind everything. Rorschach records his suspicions in his journal, which he drops off at the publication office of the New Frontiersman, a right-wing tabloid. Rorschach and Dreiberg confront Veidt at his Antarctic retreat. Veidt admits to being responsible for Blakes murder, Manhattans exile, Rorschachs framing, and his own assassination attempt, which he staged to divert suspicion. He explains that his plan is to unify the U.S. and U.S.S.R. by destroying the worlds main cities with exploding energy reactors generating a Radioactive Decay Signature similar to that produced by Dr. Manhattan. Rorschach and Dreiberg attempt to stop him, but Veidt subdues them both and reveals that his plan has already been set into motion: The reactors already detonated, and the Decay Signatures are recognized as Dr. Manhattans, leaving the world powers to assume he caused the attack. Jupiter and Dr. Manhattan arrive in a destroyed New York City and determine that Veidt is responsible. They teleport to his base, causing him to retreat and attempt to kill Dr. Manhattan. Unsuccessful, he shows them a televised news report in which Nixon states that the two superpowers have allied against their new "common enemy": Dr. Manhattan. Although his allies realize that revealing the truth would only disrupt this new peace, Rorschach refuses to compromise, and attempts to return to the United States to expose Veidt. Dr. Manhattan intervenes and complies with Rorschachs demand to kill him to keep him from revealing the truth. Dr. Manhattan shares a final kiss with Jupiter before departing permanently to another galaxy, while an enraged Dreiberg attacks Veidt, who makes no effort to defend himself. Nevertheless, he defends his actions, claiming that for world peace to be possible, there had to be sacrifice. Dreiberg rejects his logic declaring that Veidt has deformed and mutilated humanity. Dreiberg and Jupiter return to New York with plans to continue fighting crime. Later, an editor of the New Frontiersman tells a young employee that, as the world is at peace, there is nothing to report on. The editor gives the employee permission to print the contents of a collection of crank mailings, among which is Rorschachs journal.
Watchmen (film)
2009