Long after the melting of the polar ice caps in the 21st century, the sea levels have covered every continent on Earth. The remains of human civilization live on ramshackle floating communities known as atolls, having long forgotten about living on land. Even so, people still believe that there should be a mythological "Dryland" somewhere in the endless ocean. The Mariner (Kevin Costner), a lone drifter, arrives on his trimaran to trade dirt, a rare commodity, for other supplies. The atolls residents see that the Mariner is a mutant with gills and webbed feet and decide to drown him in the atolls recycling pit—a kind of liquid compost facility. Just then, the atoll is attacked by Smokers, a gang of pirates seeking a girl named Enola (Tina Majorino) who, according to their leader the Deacon (Dennis Hopper), has a map to Dryland tattooed on her back. Enolas guardian, Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn), attempts to escape with Enola on a gas balloon with Gregor (Michael Jeter), an inventor, but the balloon is released too early. Helen instead rescues the Mariner and insists that he take the two of them with him. The three escape to open sea aboard the trimaran. They are pursued by the Smokers, and, though they escape, Helens naïve actions result in damage to the Mariners boat, so he angrily cuts her hair then Enolas hair for talking back at him. Later, Helen explains that she believes humans once lived on land and demands to know where the Mariner collected his dirt. He provides her with a diving bell and dives with her underwater, showing the remains of a city and the dirt on the oceans floor, affirming Helens belief. When they surface, they find that the Smokers have caught up to them, threatening to kill them if they dont reveal Enola who is hiding aboard the boat. The Mariner takes Helen, and they dive underwater to avoid capture, with the gilled Mariner helping Helen to breathe. When they surface, they find that Enola has been abducted and the boat destroyed. Gregor manages to catch up to and rescue them, taking them to a new makeshift atoll inhabited by the survivors of the first attack. The Mariner takes a captured Smokers jet ski to chase down the Deacon aboard the hulk of the Exxon Valdez. With most of the Smokers below deck to row the tanker, the Mariner confronts the Deacon, threatening to ignite the reserves of oil still on the tanker unless he returns Enola. The Deacon calls the Mariners bluff, knowing that would destroy the ship, but, to his surprise, the Mariner drops a flare into the oil. The lower decks of the ship are immediately engulfed in flame, and the ship starts to sink. The Mariner rescues Enola and escapes via a rope from Gregors balloon with Helen and the Atoll Enforcer aboard. As the Mariner brings Enola to Helen, the Deacon manages to grab the rope to escape the sinking ship. He fires upon the balloon, shaking Enola from the balloon and falling back into the ocean where he quickly rejoins his men on jet skis to capture her. The Mariner makes an impromptu bungee jump from the balloon to grab Enola right before the Deacon and his men collide and die in the explosion. Sometime later, Gregor has been able to identify the tattoo on Enolas back as coordinates with reversed directions. Following the map, Gregor, the Mariner, the Atoll Enforcer, Helen, and Enola discover Dryland, the top of Mount Everest, filled with vegetation and wildlife. They also find a crude hut with the remains of Enolas parents. Realizing he didnt belong on Dryland, the Mariner decides that he cannot stay as the sea calls to him. He finds a new wooden sailboat and departs as Helen and Enola bid their goodbyes to him.
Waterworld
1995