Harold Bledsoe, a student of botany, is traveling by rail to San Francisco, where the captain of police has sent for him to help investigate a crime wave in the citys Chinatown district. Since Harold is the son of San Franciscos former police captain, municipal authorities hope he will be as skilled as his father in solving crimes. Also traveling to the city, but by car, are two people unknown to Harold. They are a young woman named Billie Lee and her little brother Buddy, who is in dire need of having his lame leg treated in San Francisco by "the famous Chinese physician" Dr. Chang Gow. During a brief train stop in Colorado, Harold has his photograph taken at a vending machine. He is surprised to see in the print the face of an attractive woman next to his. Actually, Billie Lee had taken her photo at the same machine before Harold, but the film failed to develop properly, thus leaving her image on his double-exposed print. Harolds train halts again later for a minor repair; and while waiting outside the passenger car, he sees an unusual blossom on a nearby tree. He goes to fetch it but is unable to reach high enough, so he stands on the back of a cow. Suddenly, the trains whistle blows, which causes the cow to bolt with Harold holding on desperately. The animal soon throws him off on a dirt road where Billie and Buddys old car sits with an apparent engine problem. Harold does not recognise Billie as the woman on his photograph; in fact, he thinks she is a boy since she is wearing a mans cap and overalls to work on the engine. Harold tries to help, but he only complicates things and repeatedly insults Billie. After she removes the carburetor, a passing motorist suggests they check their cars gas tank, which is indeed empty. The motorist gives them some fuel; but after he leaves, Billie realizes that she left the carburetor on the other cars running board. Now they must spend the night along the roadside. Harold makes Billie do much of the work setting up camp as he sits mooning over the mysterious woman in his photograph. Billie saw earlier that it is her image, but she does not tell him. After enduring more physical and verbal abuse from Harold, she finally changes her clothes in a tent and then shocks him by reappearing in a dress. He now recognizes her and flees, embarrassed by his boorish behavior. She catches him and asks if he still thinks she is as beautiful as in the photograph; he says yes. Next morning, the trio harness the cow to pull their car to a gas station. Harold then separates from Billie and Buddy to catch another westbound train. Once in San Francisco and at police headquarters, Harold is introduced to the process of fingerprinting, which intrigues him. He causes chaos at the station for the next two weeks by using the messy, fine black powder to take fingerprints of everyone at the building, including the print of a visitor, John Thorne, a respected citizen who is pressuring the police to crack down on crime. Harolds antics continue to anger staff at the station, so the desk sergeant hatches a scheme to get rid of him. He sends him on a mission to find the "Dragon", the mysterious master of the citys Chinese underworld. To "aid" Herold in his search, the sergeant gives him Mr. Thornes fingerprint, but he lies and tells him it is the Dragons print. Harold goes to Chinatown, where he sees Billie in her car. She gives him the address where she and Buddy are residing in the city. Harold then passes a flower shop and sees a beautiful potted flower he wants to purchase for Billie, but the employees refuse to sell it. Determined to have one, he throws money on the floor and dashes out of the shop with the flower and evades two employees in hot pursuit. He next visits Billie and gives her the flower. Dr. Gow is also there examining Buddys leg. As he departs, he accidentally knocks the flower off a table and breaks its pot, revealing a package of opium. Telling them to say nothing about the drug, the doctor goes to the flower shop, where he is kidnapped. Later, Harold and Billie hear radio news that Dr. Gow had been seized and may be killed. Fearing his death would deprive Buddy of any hope of a permanent recovery, Harold leaves to rescue the doctor. In Chinatown, Harold sees Clancy, a street cop he had met earlier; and together they go to the shop. Aware of their presence, employees there set up a series of spooky effects to frighten them from the premises; yet, Harold and Clancy remain despite being terrified. Clancy does leave briefly to call for more officers before returning. Fights then begin with Chinese gang members and continue in passageways beneath the shop. Harold wanders through the basement area and soon encounters the masked Dragon and some of his men preparing to execute Dr. Gow. Harold manages to prevent the murder and struggles with the Dragon, who escapes with his hostage before the police burst in and arrest everyone else. When the police return to the station with Harold and gang members, Billie is already there, eager to find him. The police inform Harold about misleading him with the Dragon’s fingerprint. He is mortified until he notices in a mirror that in his fight with the Dragon, the drug lord had left his sooty fingerprint on Harolds forehead, and it matches Thornes print. Harold tries to explain the significance of this find to his colleagues, who only ridicule him. Thorne then appears at the station, and Harold instantly denounces him. As an influential public figure, Thorne is thought to be above suspicion, so the police apologize for Harolds behavior and try to detain him. He gets away and follows Thorne to his home, where he eventually extracts a confession from him. The police arrive and remain skeptical that Thorne is the Dragon until Harold finds Dr. Gow gagged and bound in a closet in Thornes study. Thorne is arrested, and the film ends with Billie accepting Harolds clumsy proposal of marriage.
Welcome Danger
1929