Museum curators Dr. Powell (Bud Jamison) and Professor Wilson (James C. Morton) hire the Stooges as private detectives to locate Professor Tuttle of Egyptology, who went missing while attempting to find the mummy of Egyptian King Rootin Tootin in Cairo. The Stooges check the basement and help a man take a box onto a truck, not aware that Tuttle is bound and gagged inside. They are then told by the curators to find the tomb and bring back the mummy, for which they will be paid $5,000. They hail a taxicab in New York City, and inform the bewildered driver (Eddie Laughton) they are bound for Egypt. Once in Egypt, the boys, under the duress of a mirage, believe an empty patch of sand is a lake of cool water, and dive in, inadvertently diving into a series of underground tunnels that may lead to the tomb of Rootin Tootin. They begin to investigate, but end up separated, as Curly runs afoul with a living mummy. He takes off running, and he and his pals reunite. Upon their arrival, the Stooges learn that Tuttle is being held hostage by a group of thieves; they have him bound and gagged as the Stooges wander through the underground tunnels. Curly finds what the Stooges believe to be the mummy of Rootin Tootin in a secret room, activated by a trap door. When Curly tries to pick it up, he clumsily drops it, crumbling it to dust. They then hear gang boss Jackson (Dick Curtis) threatening the professor in the hopes of getting him to tell the crooks where the mummy is. The frightened professor tells them, and is warned that if the mummy is not there, he and the Stooges will be killed. The Stooges realize they will be killed if Jackson discovers the crushed mummy, so Moe gets the idea to make a mummy out of Curly. Curly responds by stating, "I cant be a mummy, Im a daddy!", but he relents when warned of the alternative. He lies on the stone slab in disguise when the crooks arrive. Jackson decides to search for the jewels by cutting Curly open, causing Curly to open the bandages on his chest when Jackson turns his head away. Jackson then searches in Curlys jacket, pulls a newspaper out and reads "Yanks win World Series — can you beat that!" Curly blows his cover by replying, "Yeah, and I won five bucks!" Realizing he has been tricked, Jackson charges Curly, but in the process of chasing the Stooges, he and his cronies fall into a well Curly had fallen into earlier and hid using a carpet. The Stooges admit to Professor Tuttle that Curly had destroyed the mummy; however, it turns out, that the mummy which was destroyed was not that of King Rootin Tootin, but of his wife, Queen Hotsy-Totsy. He holds up a small mummy case, containing the real mummy of Rootin Tootin, who was a midget. An alligator crawls into the room when no one is looking and stands still. Curly spots the still alligator and believes it to be another mummy, and plans to take it home with him. When Curly bends over to grab some rope, the alligator bites Curly on the behind. When Curly tells Moe, Larry & the professor what happened, they dont believe him - until the alligator snaps his jaws again. The four run frightened out of the tunnels and back to the waiting cab outside.
We Want Our Mummy
1939