Nick Marshall is a Chicago advertising executive and alpha male, was raised by his Las Vegas showgirl mother. Nick is a chauvinist skilled at selling products to men and seducing women. He expects a big promotion, but his manager, Dan, instead announces that he is hiring Darcy McGuire to broaden the firms appeal to women. Meanwhile, Nicks estranged 15-year-old daughter, Alex, is staying with him while his ex-wife, Gigi, is on her honeymoon. Nick embarrasses Alex, who resents his over-protectiveness when he meets her boyfriend, Cameron. Darcy tasks the staff, including Nick, to develop advertising ideas for a series of feminine products she distributes at the staff meeting. While testing a few items at home, Nick falls into his bathtub while holding an electric hairdryer, shocking himself. The next morning, Nick awakens to discover that he can hear womens thoughts. He has an epiphany, realizing that most women, especially at work, dislike him and consider him sleazy. He makes an impromptu visit to his former therapist, Dr. Perkins (who also disliked him), and she encourages him to use his new-found ability to his advantage. Nick eavesdrops on Darcy and sabotages her ideas to use as his own, but gradually becomes attracted to her. His daughter, Alex, resents her fathers years of neglect, but they start to bond while he takes her shopping for a prom dress. After Nick detects that Alex intends to sleep with Cameron the night of the prom, she rejects Nicks attempt at advice. Nick and Darcy spend more time together, becoming romantic. However, he trumps Darcys idea for a new Nike ad campaign aimed at women, though he later regrets his actions, especially as it leads to Dan firing Darcy. Nick persuades Dan to rehire Darcy, saying the ad was her idea. Over time, Nick succeeds in repairing his female acquaintances/relationships, especially those at work. Nick loses his gift during a severe thunder and lightning storm while on his way to see company secretary, Erin, who (telepathic ability revealed) has been contemplating suicide. He offers her a position that she was previously turned down for. When Cameron dumps Alex at the prom for refusing to have sex, Nick finds and consoles her, cementing their newly-repaired relationship. Nick visits Darcy and explains everything. She fires him, but then forgives him.
What Women Want
2000