After her daughter leaves for college, Claire Spencer begins noticing her volatile new neighbors, Mary and Warren Feur. Claires husband Norman, an accomplished scientist and professor, dismisses her preoccupation. After failing to see Mary for several days, Claire suspects Warren may have killed her. Claire and her friend, Jody, a mystic, unsuccessfully hold a séance to contact Mary. After Jody leaves, Claire finds the bathtub filled with hot water and, "You know," written in the mirror. Hysterical, Claire, about to call her husband, finds her computer typing "MEF" over and over. Norman disbelieves Claire, who is convinced Mary is haunting her. Several days later, Mary returns home alive and well, saying she was with her mother in Rhode Island after a fight with Warren. Claire continues to experience strange phenomena. She sees the image of a woman floating in the lake, and discovers a key inside a heater vent. In a broken picture frame, she finds a newspaper clipping of a missing woman named Madison Elizabeth Frank, who bears a striking resemblance to her, and whose initials match "MEF." Claire visits Madisons mother, and steals a lock of Madisons hair. Later that night, Claire reads about conjuring the dead, and becomes possessed. When Norman arrives home from work, Claires personality has noticeably changed, and she aggressively seduces him. While on top of him, he notices her eyes turn from blue to green, and her face shifts to that of Madisons; horrified he throws her to the floor, and Claire comes back to her senses. He admits to having had an affair with Madison, who was a student, and Claire recalls a repressed memory of having caught the two having sex. Upset, Claire spends the night with Jody, who reveals to her that she had witnessed Norman arguing with a blonde woman at a cafe in the nearby town of Adamant about a year earlier. The next morning Claire returns home and finds Norman comatose in the tub with a hair dryer, an apparent suicide attempt. The paramedics are called, but he is given a clean bill of health. Convinced Madisons spirit is attempting to take revenge, Claire asks Norman if he killed Madison, which he denies. Claire visits Adamant, where she spots ornate lockboxes at a shop with identical keys to the one she found in her house. In the lake, she discovers an identical box, which she unlocks with the matching key; inside, she finds a necklace. Norman changes his story, and claims Madison killed herself in their home, and that he disposed of her body by putting it in her car and pushing it into the lake. Norman agrees to confess to authorities, and calls 911 and explains he has information about Madisons disappearance. He leaves the room, and Claire redials the phone to discover he actually dialed 411 (information), faking the conversation. Norman attacks her, and paralyzes her by injecting her with succinylcholine. As she begins to feel the effects and attempts to crawl away but fails, he admits to murdering Madison after she had threatened to go to the dean of the university about their affair. Norman places Claire in the bathtub, which he fills with water. As the bathtub fills, he spots Madisons necklace around Claires neck; as he moves her, her face contorts to that of Madisons corpse. Startled, Norman slips and smashes his head on the sink, and is knocked unconscious. Claire, recovering from the paralysis, manages to shut the tap off in time to save herself from drowning. She regains her strength and finds Norman has left the bathroom. She discovers him seemingly unconscious downstairs, his head bleeding profusely. He awakens and attacks her, and she flees in the couples truck, which has their boat hitched to the back. As she is crossing the bridge over Lake Champlain, Norman bursts through the back window and grabs Claire; she frantically dials 911 on her cell phone and the truck careens down the embankment into the lake. Underwater, Claire escapes out the window, but Norman grabs her leg. The truck dislodges Madisons car at the bottom of the lake, and her body floats toward them. Madison grabs Norman and he drowns, allowing Claire to swim to the surface. Later in the winter, Claire places a single red rose on Madisons grave.
What Lies Beneath
2000