Bob Wiley is a good-natured man with great work ethic, but he suffers from multiple phobias and is divorced because his ex-wife likes Neil Diamond. He feels good about the results of an initial session with Dr. Leo Marvin, an egotistical New York psychoanalyst. However, Bob is immediately left on his own with a copy of Leos new book, Baby Steps, when the doctor goes on vacation to Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire for a month. Unable to cope, Bob follows Leo to his vacation home. Leo is annoyed because he does not see patients on vacation, but seeing how desperate Bob is tells him to "take a vacation" from his problems. Bob seems to have made a breakthrough, but the next morning, he tells Leo that he decided to take a vacation in spirit and fact at Lake Winnipesaukee as a guest of the Guttmans, a couple who own a coffee shop and happily welcome Bob as their guest. The couple encourages Bob to be around Leo, as they hold a grudge against Dr. Marvin for purchasing the lakeside home they had been saving for years to buy. Bob suggests that they start a friendship, but Leo thinks being friends with a patient is beneath him and attempts to avoid any further contact. However, Bob swiftly ingratiates himself with Leos family, who think Bob may have some foibles, but is otherwise a balanced and sociable man. Leos children, Anna and Sigmund, find that Bob relates well to their problems, in contrast with their fathers clinical approach. Bob gains an enjoyment of life from his association with them; he goes sailing with Anna and helps Sigmund to dive into the lake, which Leo was unable to help him with. Leo then angrily pushes Bob into the lake, and Leos wife, Fay, insists on inviting Bob to dinner to apologize. Bob, who believes Leos slights against him are accidental and/or part of his therapy, accepts the invitation. After dinner, a thunderstorm forces Bob to spend the night. Leo wants Bob out of the house early the next morning before Good Morning America arrives to interview him about Baby Steps. The television crew arrives early and, oblivious to Leos discomfort, suggest having Bob on the show as well. Leo is tense and makes a fool out of himself during the interview while Bob is relaxed and speaks glowingly of Leo and the book, unintentionally stealing the spotlight. Outraged, Leo throws a tantrum and then attempts to have Bob committed, but Bob is soon released after telling the staff institution therapy jokes, easily demonstrating his sanity. Forced to retrieve him, Leo then abandons Bob in the middle of nowhere, but Bob quickly gets a ride back to Leos house while various mishaps delay Leo until nightfall. Leo is then surprised by the birthday party that Fay has been secretly planning for him, and he is delighted to see his beloved sister Lily. But when Bob appears and puts his arm around Lily, Leo becomes enraged and attacks him. Bob remains oblivious to Leo’s hostility until Fay explains that Leo has a grudge against Bob, who then agrees to leave. Meanwhile, Leo breaks into a general store, stealing a shotgun and 20 pounds of explosives. Leo kidnaps Bob at gunpoint, and leads him deep into the woods, ties him up, and straps the explosives onto him, calling it "death therapy". Leo then returns to the house, gleefully preparing his cover story. Believing the explosives to be props and used as a metaphor for his problems, Bob applies Leos "Baby Steps" approach and manages to free himself both of his physical restraints and his fears; he reunites with the Marvins and praises Leo for curing him with "death therapy". The Marvins vacation home detonates after Bob reveals that he left the explosives inside. The shock leaves Leo in a catatonic state. Some time later, the still-catatonic Leo is brought to Bob and Lilys wedding. Upon their pronouncement as husband and wife, Leo regains his senses and screams, "No!" but the sentiment is lost in the familys excitement at his recovery. Text at the end reveals that Bob went back to school and became a psychologist, then wrote a best selling book titled Death Therapy, and that Leo is suing him for the rights.
What About Bob?
1991