The plot centers on the Academy Awards presentation. The action begins with live action color film footage of various Hollywood scenes (edited from A Star Is Born), narrated by Robert C. Bruce. It leads up to the Big Question of the evening: Who will win "the" Oscar? The film shows the stereotypical red carpet arrivals of stars, as well as a human emcee starting to introduce the Oscar show. At this point the film switches to animation, with the shadow of a now-animated emcee (and now voiced by Mel Blanc) continuing to introduce the Oscar, and Bugs (also Mel Blancs voice, as usual) assuring the viewer that "its in da bag; Im a cinch to win". Bugs is stunned when the award goes instead to James Cagney (who had actually won in the previous years ceremony, for Warners Yankee Doodle Dandy). Shock turns to anger as Bugs declares the results to be "sa-bo-TAH-gee" and demands a recount. Bugs then tries to make his case by showing clips from Hiawathas Rabbit Hunt (which includes a clip of Hiawatha attempting to "cook" the rabbit) as proof of his allegedly superior acting (an inside joke, as the cartoon had actually been nominated for an Oscar and lost). He hurls a set of film cans off-screen and tells someone named "Smokey" to "roll em!" Bugs tells the audience that these are some of his "best scenes". Immediately a "stag reel" (with the title card depicting a grinning stag) starts to roll, and the startled Bugs quickly stops it and switches to the right film. The clip starts with a title card of "BUGS BUNNY" in very large letters, as a brassy orchestral fanfare plays, and ends with an end title card of Bugs bending over to show his cotton tail and giving his toothy grin as a comically sped up version of the Merrie Melodies end theme (Merrily We Roll Along) is heard. There is then a parody of aggressive salesmanship. Bugs beats a big bass drum and parades across the stage with signs like “ Let Bugs Have It” and “Give It To Bugs”. Cigars are then quickly passed out en masse to the audience. Finally, Bugs pleads with the audience, "What do you say, folks? Do I get it? Or do I get it?" (echoing Fredric Marchs drunken appeal to the Academy Award banquet audience in A Star Is Born). The emcee asks the audience (in an affected nasal voice), "Shall we give it to him, folks?" and they yell, "Yeah, lets give it to him!" whereupon they pelt Bugs with fruits and vegetables (enabling him to briefly do a Carmen Miranda impression)... and an ersatz Oscar labeled "booby prize", which is actually a gold-plated rabbit statue. Bugs is so pleased at winning it, he remarks, "Ill even take youse to bed wit me every night!" The statue suddenly comes alive, asks in a voice like that of radio character, Bert Gordon, "Do you mean it?", smooches the startled bunny, and takes on an effeminate, hip-swiveling pose. The screen fades out, Clampetts famous vocalized "Bay-woop!" is heard, and the "Thats all, Folks!" card appears.
What's Cookin' Doc?
1944