In the winter of 1943–44, U.S. Army Brigadier General George Carnaby (Robert Beatty), a chief planner for the Western Front, is captured by the Germans when his air transport to Crete is shot down. He is taken for interrogation to the Schloß Adler, a mountaintop fortress in the Alps of southern Bavaria, accessible only by cable car or helicopter. A team of seven Allied commandos, led by British Major John Smith of the Grenadier Guards (Richard Burton) and U.S. Army Ranger Lieutenant Morris Schaffer (Clint Eastwood), is briefed by Colonel Turner (Patrick Wymark) and Admiral Rolland (Michael Hordern) of MI6. Disguised as German troops, they are to parachute in, enter the castle, and rescue General Carnaby before the Germans can interrogate him. After their German Ju-52 transport drops them in Germany, Smith secretly meets Mary Ellison (Mary Ure) and Heidi Schmidt (Ingrid Pitt), their presence known only to him; Heidi arranges for Mary to be a maid at the castle. Although two of the team are mysteriously killed, Smith continues the operation, keeping Schaffer as a close ally and secretly updating Rolland and Turner by radio. The commandos surrender themselves to the Germans; Smith and Schaffer (being officers) are separated from the other three operatives, Thomas (William Squire), Berkeley (Peter Barkworth), and Christiansen (Donald Houston). Smith and Schaffer quickly kill their captors, blow up a supply depot, and prepare an escape route for use at the end of their mission. They reach the castle by riding on the roof of a cable car, and climb inside when Mary lowers a rope. German General Rosemeyer (Ferdy Mayne) and Standartenführer Kramer (Anton Diffring) are interrogating Carnaby when the three new prisoners arrive; all three identify themselves as German double agents. Smith and Schaffer intrude, weapons drawn, but Smith forces Schaffer to disarm. He identifies himself as Sturmbannführer Johann Schmidt of the SD of the SS intelligence branch. As proof, he discreetly shows the name of Germanys top agent in Britain to Kramer, who silently affirms it. He now reveals that "General Carnaby" is an impostor, a lookalike U.S. corporal named Cartwright Jones, further claiming that the other prisoners are British impostors. To test them, he proposes that they write down the names of their fellow agents in Britain, to be compared to his own list in his pocket. After the three finish their lists, Smith and Schaffer re-secure the room; the former reveals that he was bluffing and the lists were the missions true objective. Meanwhile, Mary is visited by Sturmbannführer (Major) von Hapen (Derren Nesbitt), a Gestapo officer infatuated with her, but he soon becomes suspicious of flaws in her cover story. Leaving her, he happens upon the scene of Carnabys interrogation just as Smith finishes his explanation. Von Hapen puts everyone under arrest but is distracted when Mary arrives. Schaffer seizes the opportunity to kill von Hapen and the other German officers with his silenced pistol. The group then makes its escape, taking the three agents as prisoners. Schaffer sets explosives to create diversions around the castle, while Smith leads the group to the radio room where he informs Rolland of their success. From there they head to the cable car station, sacrificing Thomas as a decoy. Berkeley and Christiansen break free and attempt their own escape in a cable car; both are thwarted and killed by Smith. The group eventually reunites with Heidi on the ground, boarding a captured bus they had prepared earlier as an escape vehicle. With enemy troops in hot pursuit, they battle their way on to an airfield and escape via their Ju-52 transport, where Turner has been waiting. As Turner debriefs Smith about the mission, Smith reveals that the name Kramer confirmed as Germanys top agent in Britain was Turners own. Rolland had lured Turner and the others into participating so MI6 could expose them; Smiths trusted partner Mary and the American Schaffer (who had no connection to MI6) had been assigned to the mission to ensure its success. Turner attempts to kill Smith with a machine gun, but Rolland, anticipating such a move, has removed its firing pin. To avoid a court martial and execution, Turner is permitted to jump from the aircraft without a parachute. Schaffer half-jokingly asks Smith to keep his next mission "an all-British operation".
Where Eagles Dare
1968