The movie opens with a vicious killer attacking an innocent woman in her apartment. The scene switches over to the old man, Amos Kyne, played by Robert Warwick, who is on his death bed talking to the star of the movie, Edward Mobley (Dana Andrews) the anchorman for Kyne Inc. The discussion entails what will happen to the media empire after Amoss death with Mobley turning the top job down more than once. Mobley informs the old man that he is about to go on live in four minutes and walks over to the TV set turning it on, still talking to the old man who doesn’t answer. Mobley looks around and sees Amos, propped up and slumped over dead. After Amoss death, the corporation goes to his son, Walter (Vincent Price), who because of resentment against his father, has never been involved in the family business. Due to his lack of knowledge and rather than take on all the work at the top all by himself, Walter Kyne challenges the men in charge of Kynes three divisions, Mark Loving (George Sanders) Jon Day Griffith (Thomas Mitchell) and Honest Harry Kritzer (James Craig), to solve and catch the serial killer who has been dubbed the "Lipstick murderer". Whoever does this will get the new second in command job as Executive Director. This new job is a very lucrative prize and in order to secure it, Jon Day Griffith, attempts to ally with Edward Mobley, who doesnt want to get involved with it. Wire-service chief, Mark Loving manipulates star writer, Mildred Donner (Ida Lupino) to cozy up to and get information out of Mobley. Television chief Harry Kritzer, uses a different method by having a secret affair with Walter Kynes wife, Dorothy (Rhonda Fleming) in order to use her as his confidant and aid by sweet talking her husband in his behalf. Mobley becomes engaged to Lovings secretary, Nancy Liggett (Sally Forrest) and receives inside information from his police friend, Lt. Kaufman (Howard Duff). The three decide to set a trap by and use Nancy as the bait with Mobley taunting the Lipstick murderer (John Drew Barrymore) on TV in order to bring him out into the open. As coincidence would have it, Nancy Liggett and Dorothy Kyne, live across the hall from each other on the second floor in the same apartment without each other knowing it, because Dorothy discreetly rents there to have an affair with Honest Harry. The Lipstick Murderer follows Nancy to her apartment to attack her, but fails to gain entrance. Mrs. Kyne happens to arrive just then and enters her apartment which the killer takes advantage of and succeeds in attacking her. She fights him off and runs out into Nancy’s apartment who opens her door when she heard Dorothy screaming. The killer runs away and the story unfolds with the police catching the him as he screams, no! No!... In all the commotion, everyone found out about Dorothy’s secret apartment and adulterous affair. Honest Harry Kritzer wins the job because of the implication of blackmail against Walter without really going into detail, though we are led to believe that Walter didn’t want a scandal so he gave Harry the job. Besides that, Mobley ends up saying; “...who ends up on top? Honest Harry Kritzer, because all the time, he’s been playing footsie with Walter’s wife... Harry Kritzer gets the job, Walter Kyne gets his wife back, and Mildred Donner ends up with a syndicated column” Mobley then goes on to resign and marries Nancy. The movie ends in an appropriately old fashioned way with Dana Andrews and Sally Forrest on their honeymoon kissing while the telephone is ringing.
While the City Sleeps (1956 film)
1956