Ray Dolezal, a bored Torrance County, New Mexico Deputy Sheriff, investigates an apparent suicide in the desert. Alongside the body is a suitcase containing $500,000. During the autopsy, they find a digested piece of paper with a phone number; Dolezal, posing as Spenser, calls the number and goes to a meeting, where he is robbed and instructed to meet Gorman Lennox at a restaurant. FBI agent Greg Meeker intercepts Dolezal and informs him that Spenser was an undercover agent. Now that Dolezal has lost the money, Meeker suggests he continue posing as Spenser to recover the money or help arrest Lennox. Dolezal meets Lennox and his wealthy associate Lane Bodine and learns the money is for illegal arms to fund left-wing freedom fighters in South America. The arms dealers demo the guns for Dolezal and Lennox, but demand an additional $250,000 due to unforeseen expenses; Meeker, unwilling to provide more money, pushes the responsibility on Dolezal, who romances his way into Lanes life so she will attract rich humanitarian donors to fund the deal. Two FBI internal affairs agents hunt for Dolezal, believing he killed Spenser and took the money. Dolezal is forced to admit to Lane he is not really Spenser, but she agrees to help raise the money because she finds Dolezal a better alternative to Lennox. Dolezal learns from Noreen, who had an affair with the real Spenser, that he was working with an FBI agent who likely killed him. Noreen runs away at the sight of Meeker and the internal affairs agents grab Dolezal. Lennox runs the agents off the road; Dolezal flees and returns to Lane. He discovers Noreen dead and a Polaroid of her with Spenser and Meeker. Dolezal breaks into a surveillance van outside Lanes house and beats up the FBI agent. He accuses Meeker of killing Spenser and Noreen. Meeker admits he procured the $500,000 without authorization to steal it and capture Lennox, but Spenser lost his nerve and backed out; Meeker confronted him out in the desert and talked him into shooting himself. He taunts Dolezal that the Polaroid proves nothing, and no one will believe his word against that of a minority agent with a spotless record. Lennox confronts Dolezal and reveals the two internal affairs agents tied up in the trunk of his car. They drive out into the desert, where Lennox says he knows Dolezal is not Spenser, because Lennox is really a CIA agent who wants the arms deal to ensure the survival of the military-industrial complex. Lennox kills the two agents and informs Dolezal that he also kidnapped Lane. Dolezal must find where she hid the $250,000 and meet Lennox on a deserted military base in the White Sands desert. Dolezal uncovers the money in a briefcase buried in Lanes horses stall. He kidnaps Meeker, takes him out to the White Sands base, and handcuffs him to a pipe inside an abandoned building. Dolezal explains that Lennox is CIA, the FBI will be arriving soon, and Meeker can either face punishment or try to flee. Dolezal leaves a gun behind, so that with some effort Meeker is able to grab it and hide behind a bathroom stall. Lennox arrives and reveals that Lane is down the road at the base entrance. Dolezal placed the briefcase in the abandoned building, but when Lennox walks in, Meeker shoots and kills him. After disabling Lennoxs car, Dolezal picks up Lane. He drops her off at her estate and explains that needs to return to his family. He hands her the $250,000 she had obtained through her pseudo-fund raising event. A small army of FBI arrive in cars and helicopters. Meeker breaks the pipe he was cuffed to and runs through the White Sands desert with the briefcase. Dolezal left the original $500,000 he was originally suspected of stealing so the FBI will stop investigating him, but one of the agents notices footprints going out into the White Sands and so they head off in pursuit. As the FBI catches up with him, Meeker stumbles and drops the briefcase, which breaks open; it contains nothing but sand.
White Sands (film)
1992