On her arrival in Haiti, Madeleine Short (Madge Bellamy) reunites with her fiancé Neil Parker (John Harron), with imminent plans to be married. On the voyage, she met Charles Beaumont (Robert Frazer), a wealthy planter who convinced her to have the marriage ceremony at his plantation house. Beaumont has fallen in love with Madelaine, and plans to get Neil out of the way by giving him a job in New York as his agent. On the way to Beaumonts house, the couples carriage passes "Murder" Legendre (Bela Lugosi), an evil voodoo master, leading a group of zombies. Legendre observes them with interest and manages to grab Madeleines scarf. After arriving at the house, and meeting Dr. Bruner (Joseph Cawthorn), who is to perform the ceremony, the couple is shown to their rooms, and Beaumont goes off in a cart driven by a zombie to meet Legendre at Legendres sugarcane mill, operated entirely by zombies. Beaumont solicits Legendres supernatural assistance in getting Madeleine to marry him. Legendre states that the only way is to transform Madeleine into a zombie with a potion. Beaumont protests that he will find another way, but Legendre insists that the potion is the only way, and makes him he take it with him. The next day, as Beaumont is leading Madeleine to the altar, he tries to convince her not to go through with the wedding, but she insists. He asks for one final kiss, and gives her a rose with the potion on it. She kisses the flower and puts it into her bouquet. Shortly after the ceremony, the potion takes effect, and Madeleine appears to die. Haunted by Madeleines death, Neil takes to drink, and sees apparitions of her in every shadow. Legendre and Beaumont enter Madeleines tomb at night with Legendres zombie servants, who were all his enemies when they were alive. Hearing the raving Neil approach, they remove Madeleines casket from the tomb. Finding it empty, Neil seeks assistance from Dr. Bruner, who explains to him about the possible existence of zombies. In Legendres cliffside castle, Madeleine has been revived as a zombie, and Beaumont listens to her play the piano, her eyes lifeless. He gives her jewelry, but she does not respond. Beaumont now regrets having transformed her into a zombie. He begs Legendre to return her to life, but he refuses, and demonstrates his mental control over her by wordlessly sending her away. After drinking a glass of wine offered by Legendre, Beaumont realizes that it is tainted with the potion, and that he will be turned into a zombie. Legendre tells Beaumont that he has his own plans for Madeleine. Beaumont calls on his butler, Silver, to help him, but Legendre transfixes Silver with his eyes, and the zombie servants take him away to a terrible death. Neil and Bruner seek out an old witch doctor, Pierre (Dan Crimmins), who tells them that all his people are afraid of the mountains, which they call "The Land of the Living Dead", because of the evil man who lives there named "Murder." Camping out not far from the foot of Legendres castle, Neil and Bruner hear the terrible screeches of a vulture. Bruner heads out to the castle, but Neil is too ill to go with him, so Bruner goes alone. Shortly afterwards, Neil has another vision of Madeleine, and follows it to the castle, where Madeleine is attended by human maids who cannot bear to touch the zombie woman, even to brush her hair. Legendre and Beaumont are together in the main room. Because Beaumont is the first man to actually know that he is turning into a zombie, Legendre questions him about his "symptoms", but Beaumont cannot speak. After Neil enters the castle, Legendre senses his presence and silently orders Madeleine to kill him, over Beaumonts feeble protest. She approaches the passed-out Neil with a knife, but she hesitates. Legendre increases his telepathic command, and Madeleine raises the knife to strike, but Bruner stops her. She runs away, and Neil wakes up and sees her, calling after her. He follows her to a high place above the Caribbean Sea, and entreats her to recognize him. Legendre watches them, and telepathically calls his zombie servants to kill Neil. Neil shoots at them, but they are uninjured, and keep coming towards him. Just then, Bruner approaches Legendre and knocks him out, breaking his mental control over his zombies. Undirected, they ignore Neil and walk off the cliff. The veil is lifted from Madeleines eyes so that she recognizes Neil for a moment, but Legendre wakes up, re-establishing his control over the girl, and forces Neil and Bruner back with the strength of his will. However, Beaumont appears behind him, and pushes Legendre off the cliff into the churning waters below. Beaumont loses his balance and also falls to his death, followed by a screeching vulture. Legendres death releases Madeleine from her trance, and she awakens to embrace Neil. "Neil," she says, "I dreamed."
White Zombie (film)
1932