In the civil rights era of the United States, Actress Julie Sawyer accidentally runs over a stray White German Shepherd Dog. After the vet treats him, Julie takes him home while trying to find his owners. A rapist breaks into her house and tries to attack her, but the dog protects her. She decides to adopt him, against the wishes of her boyfriend Roland Graele. Unbeknown to her, the dog was trained by a white racist to attack black people on sight. The dog sneaks out of the house, and kills a black truck driver in an attack. Later, Julie takes the dog to work with her, and he attacks a black actress on the set. Realizing something is not right with the dog, Julie takes him to a dog trainer, Carruthers, who tells her to kill the dog. Another dog trainer named Keys, who is black, undertakes training the dog as a personal challenge. He dons protective gear and keeps the dog in a large enclosure, taking him out on a chain and exposing himself to the dog each day and making sure he is the only one to feed or care for the dog. The dog escapes and kills an elderly black man in a church, after which Keys manages to recover him, and opts not to turn him over to authorities to continues the training, over Julies protests. He warns her that the training has reached a tipping point, where the dog might be cured or go insane. He believes that curing the dog will discourage white racists from training dogs like this. After a lengthy time, it seems the dog is cured, in that he is now friendly towards Keys. Julie confronts the dogs original owner, who has come to claim him, and who presumably trained him to attack black people. She angrily tells him the dog has been cured by a black person in front of his grandchildren who knew the dog to be a loving pet. Just as Julie and Keys celebrate their victory, the dog, without warning, turns its attention to Carruthers and brutally attacks him. The dog had not previously shown any aggression towards him; no explanation for this is given, but the implication is that the dogs programming has somehow been reversed, though that was never Keyss intention, or that Carruthers has a similarity to the dogs original owner. To save his employers life, Keys is forced to shoot and kill the dog, and the film ends with the image of the dogs body lying in the center of the training enclosure while Julie weeps over his dead body.
White Dog
1982