Arthur "Cody" Jarrett is a ruthless, psychotic criminal and leader of the Jarrett gang. Although married to Verna, he is overly attached to his equally crooked and determined mother, "Ma" Jarrett, his only true confidante. Cody and his gang rob a mail train in the Sierra Nevada, resulting in the deaths of four members of the train crew. With the help of informants, the authorities close in on a motor court in Los Angeles where Cody, Verna and Ma are holed up. Cody shoots and wounds US Treasury investigator Philip Evans and makes his escape. He then comes up with a scheme: to confess to a lesser crime committed in Springfield, Illinois, which an associate committed at the same time as the train robbery, thus providing him with a false alibi. He turns himself in and is sent back to Illinois, where he receives a one to three-year sentence in state prison. This does not fool Evans, however, who plants undercover agent Hank Fallon (aka Vic Pardo) in Codys cell in the Illinois State Penitentiary. His task is to find the "Trader", a fence who launders stolen money for Cody. On the outside, "Big Ed" Somers, Codys ambitious right-hand man, takes charge of the gang. Verna betrays Cody and joins Ed, feeling assured Cody will never make it out of prison because Big Ed has paid Roy Parker, an inmate, to kill Cody. In the prison workshop, Parker drops a heavy piece of machinery on Cody, but Hank pushes him out of the way, saving his life. Ma visits and vows to take care of Big Ed, despite Codys frantic attempts to dissuade her. He starts worrying and decides to break out, but before he can, he learns of Mas death and goes berserk in the mess hall, hitting a number of guards before being overpowered and dragged to the infirmary. He concocts a plan to escape by feigning a psychosis. In the infirmary, hes diagnosed as having a "homicidal psychosis" and is recommended for a transfer to an asylum. Cody takes hostages and escapes, along with his cellmates, including Hank. He takes Parker along and later shoots him in cold blood. He then heads for California with his men. On hearing of Codys escape, Big Ed anxiously awaits his arrival. Verna tries slipping away, but Cody catches her. Although Verna murdered Ma, she convinces Cody that Big Ed did it, so Cody guns him down. The gang welcome the escapees, including Hank, whom Cody likes and trusts. A stranger shows up at the gangs isolated hideout, asking to use the phone. To Hanks surprise, Cody introduces the stranger as Daniel "The Trader" Winston. Cody plans to steal the payroll at a chemical plant in Long Beach, California, by using a large, empty tanker truck as a Trojan horse. Hank manages to get a message to Evans and an ambush is prepared. The gang get into the plant and makes their way to the payroll office, but as they begin to cut through the safe, the tankers driver, "Bo" Creel, recognizes Hank as the man who arrested him four years prior. The police surround the building and call on Cody to surrender, but Cody decides to fight it out. When the police fire tear gas into the office, Hank escapes. In the ensuing gun battle, the police kill most of Codys gang. Cody shoots one of his men for trying to surrender. Verna, in a getaway car across from the plant, is arrested. She tries to barter with Evans for leniency, saying she can convince Cody to surrender, but Evans turns her down. Cody flees to the top of a gigantic, globe-shaped gas storage tank. After Hank shoots Cody several times with a rifle, Cody starts firing at the tank and shouts, "Made it, Ma! Top of the world!" Then the tank explodes.
White Heat
1949