Act I The Ozians are cheering at the news that the Wicked Witch of the West, Elphaba, is dead ("No One Mourns the Wicked"). Glinda arrives and an Ozian asks her if she and Elphaba were friends. She reluctantly admits that they were, leading Glinda to tell them the story of how they became best friends. A flashback starts with a scene at school, Shiz University, where Elphaba arrives. Elphaba was the daughter of the governor of Munchkinland - but it is heavily implied that she is the product of an affair between the governors wife and a mysterious stranger and his bottle of "green elixir", which as a result Elphaba was born with green skin. Her father resented her and showered his affection on her younger sister, Nessarose, who is physically disabled and uses a wheelchair. The two sisters both go to Shiz University, where the beautiful and popular Glinda is also in their class ("Dear Old Shiz"). As their father says goodbye, he gives Nessarose a pair of silver slippers. The headmistress, Madame Morrible, decides to take Nessarose under her protection, leaving Elphaba and Glinda as roommates to their chagrin. Elphaba attempts to take back her sister, and her anger manifests physically in an explosion. Madame Morrible recognizes that she has special powers and decides to teach her sorcery. She tells Elphaba that her powers might allow her to work with the Wonderful Wizard of Oz, something Elphaba has dreamed of ("The Wizard and I"). All of this does little to endear Elphaba to Glinda and the feeling is mutual ("What is this Feeling?"). They fight constantly, even in their classes, such as their history class with Dr. Dillamond, the only Animal professor at the university beginning to suffer from discrimination. He tells Elphaba that there is a conspiracy to stop the Animals from speaking, and she wants to let the Wizard know, for he would surely stop it ("Something Bad"). Meanwhile, Prince Fiyero has arrived at Shiz and shares his life philosophy ("Dancing Through Life"). They all decide to have a party that evening. Boq, a Munchkin who has developed a crush on Glinda, tries to invite her to the party, but she convinces him instead to ask Nessarose out of pity, leaving her free to go with Fiyero. Nessarose is delighted and tells her sister how Glinda helped it happen. When Glinda gifts an ugly hat to Elphaba to wear at the party, Elphaba takes it as an act of kindness. At the party that evening, Boq tries to tell Nessarose the real reason he invited her but is too nice to hurt her feelings. She continues to fall for him. Madame Morrible arrives to tell Glinda that she can join her sorcery class, at Elphabas obliging request. Elphaba herself arrives, wearing the witchs hat, only to find the other students laughing and staring while she awkwardly dances alone. Glinda feels regretful and goes to dance with Elphaba. Soon everyone joins them, and the two girls look at each other in a new light. Back in their room, they continue to bond. Glinda decides to give Elphaba a makeover ("Popular"). When Elphaba arrives at class the next day, Fiyero sees Glindas influence and tells Elphaba that she doesnt need to change. Dr. Dillamond enters to tell the class that he has been excommunicated. Elphaba wants to help, but no one will stand up with her. Afterward, the students are introduced to the cage, which will keep Animals controlled, so that they never learn to speak. Elphabas fury cannot be contained, and in the ensuing chaos, she and Fiyero steal the Lion cub in the cage and escape. Fiyero is disillusioned about what transpired, but he is taken by Elphabas passion. She begins to fall in love with him and they share a tender moment before he leaves to free the lion cub. Elphaba reminds herself that its pointless to wish for something to happen between them ("Im Not that Girl"). Madame Morrible comes and tells her that the Wizard has decided to meet her. Nessarose and Glinda come to see her off, and Fiyero meets her too. Glinda tries to win his respect by changing her name to "Glinda", in solidarity with Dr. Dillamond, who always mispronounced her name. But Fiyero isnt impressed, saying goodbye to Elphaba instead. Elphaba invites Glinda to the Emerald City with her ("One Short Day"). The girls meet the Wizard, who turns out to be not quite as intimidating as they thought ("A Sentimental Man"). He promises Elphaba that he will grant her request if she proves herself. Madame Morrible appears; she is the Wizards new "Press Secretary". She gives Elphaba an ancient book of spells, called the "Grimmerie," which only the magically gifted can read. Elphaba is asked to try a levitation spell on the Wizards monkey servant, Chistery. However, the spell doesnt go the way Elphaba plans when Chistery sprouts wings, and she realizes that the Wizard is the one behind the suppression of the Animals. She performs the spell on all of them. Elphaba realizes that the Wizard has no powers; he is merely a fraud. He offers her and Glinda everything theyve ever wanted if they will help him, but Elphaba is unwilling to comply. She runs away, and in order to prevent the truth from getting out, Madame Morrible spreads reports that Elphaba is "wicked". This only reaffirms Elphabas belief that she must not let anyone hold her down. She performs a spell on a broom and flies ("Defying Gravity"). Act II Some time later, Elphabas opposition of the Wizards regime has earned her the title "The Wicked Witch of the West". Glinda has become the positive public front of the Wizards regime, given the title "Glinda the Good" and positioned by Morrible as the nations defender against the Witch. A press conference to celebrate Fiyeros appointment as Captain of the Guard (a position he has accepted in order to find Elphaba) is hijacked by the crowds panicked rumors about the Witch, including a story that she will be melted by water. Fiyero is incredulous and not convinced by Glindas insistence that Elphaba does not want to be found. He is further angered when Morrible announces his engagement to Glinda and runs off. Glinda attempts to keep a cheerful front for the press, but it is clear she realizes her dream life has come at a great price ("Thank Goodness"). Elphaba pays a visit to Nessarose, who is now the governor of Munchkinland following the death of their father, who Nessarose says "died of shame" when he heard what Elphaba did. Nessarose has taken away the rights of the Munchkins in a desperate attempt to keep Boq at her side. Elphaba tries to convince her sister to side with her against the Wizard, but Nessarose is more concerned with her own problems. Elphaba tries to help by giving Nessarose the power to walk by turning the silver slippers into the "Ruby Slippers". Convinced that Boq must love her now, Nessarose calls for him, but he only sees this as proof that she doesnt need him anymore. Hurt, Nessarose takes Elphabas spell book and tries to cast a spell to make Boq fall in love with her. However, the spell backfires, making her the "Wicked Witch of the East", shrinking Boqs heart. Elphaba must work another spell to save his life, if in a slightly different condition than he was before. When Boq awakens, he is disgusted at his new state as a man made of tin, and Nessarose tells him it was Elphaba who did this to him. Elphaba returns to the Wizards palace to free the monkey servants and comes across the Wizard himself. He tries once again to convince her to work with him, telling her that he is not evil - just an average man who came into his position by chance, led to stay by the reverence of the Ozians, and he offers to redeem Elphabas reputation ("Wonderful"). She is almost won over until she sees Dr. Dillamond, who has lost the power of speech. Fiyero and the guards enter, followed by Glinda. Fiyero helps Elphaba escape and decides to leave with her. Though she was broken-hearted, Glinda reminds the Wizard and Madame Morrible that the way to recapture Elphaba is to make her think her sister is in trouble, and she will come to her rescue. She mourns that Fiyero does not love her ("Im Not that Girl, Reprise"). Elphaba and Fiyero are both taken by surprise by the strength of their feelings for each other, and promise to be together always ("As Long As Youre Mine"). Their happiness is interrupted when Elphaba suddenly has a vision of a house flying through the sky and Nessarose being in danger. Before Elphaba leaves to investigate, Fiyero tells her about a castle that his family owns that she can stay in. Glinda and Elphaba meet again at the site where Nessarose has been crushed by a house with a girl named Dorothy inside. Fueled by the rivalry over Fiyero, the two have a heated argument. The guards arrive, and Elphaba guesses that Glinda arranged for all of this. Fiyero arrives as well and holds Glinda hostage until Elphaba can escape. Glinda pleads for the guards not to harm him, but they dont listen as they escort Fiyero to the field where they can interrogate and torture him into revealing Elphabas whereabouts. Elphaba tries to cast a spell to protect him but is crestfallen by the limitations of her power. She decides that from this point on, she will live up to her reputation as the Wicked Witch of the West ("No Good Deed"). Meanwhile, the citizens of Oz, spurred on by Madame Morrible and Boqs testimony, prepare for a witch hunt to help rescue Dorothy from the clutches of the Wicked Witch. Glinda has realized Morrible, who can control the weather, is responsible for Nessaroses death, but when she confronts her, Morrible tells her that there is blood on her hands as well. Glinda flees in horror to warn Elphaba as the angry mob sets out to Kiamo Ko to kill her. ("March of the Witch Hunters"). Back at Kiamo Ko, Elphaba has already captured Dorothy, refusing to release her until she relinquishes Nessaroses slippers – the only things left of her dead sister. Glinda travels to Elphabas castle to warn her of the danger and persuade her to let Dorothy go. Elphaba refuses until she receives a letter saying that Fiyero has died. The two women forgive each other, acknowledging they have both made mistakes. To help her in her future, Elphaba gives the Grimmerie to Glinda. The two friends embrace for the last time before saying goodbye ("For Good"). As the mob arrives, Elphaba tells Glinda to hide, and she watches helplessly from the shadows as Dorothy throws a bucket of water on Elphaba, who appears to disintegrate. Shaken, Glinda sees that all that remains of her friend is her black hat and the small bottle of green elixir. In the Emerald City, Glinda confronts the Wizard with Elphabas bottle, which he recognizes as identical to his own. He was Elphabas biological father and the cause of her green skin. He breaks down in sorrow, and Madame Morrible surmises that Elphabas powers were so strong because she was a child of two worlds. Glinda banishes the Wizard from Oz and sends Madame Morrible to prison for murder. Meanwhile, back at the castle, Fiyero (now a scarecrow) comes to the spot where Elphaba was melted. Making sure that no one is watching, he knocks on the floor and out from a trap door steps Elphaba, very much alive; the entire thing was a ruse to convince her enemies of her death and to ensure her future with Fiyero, who was transformed into the scarecrow by her spell. Before leaving, Elphaba regrets that shell never see Glinda again and tell her that they are alive. Simultaneously, returning to the musicals starting point, Glinda promises the people of Oz to properly earn her title as Glinda the Good. As the people celebrate and Glinda mourns, Elphaba and Fiyero leave Oz together forever. ("Finale")
Wicked (musical)
2007