Bugs Bunny is singing "This Is My Lucky Day" when he comes on an ad in the newspaper wanted a rabbit for a show at the QTTV-TV studio. When he gets there, the producer makes Bugs climb a ladder wired to a 10,000 volt fuse box. Unbeknownst to Bugs, it is a hunting show starring Elmer Fudd called The Sportsmans Hour, sponsored by The French Fried Fresh Frozen Rabbit Company. He teaches the audience about how to hunt for a rabbit. He signals the cue for Bugs to come up out of the hole by pushing a button to activate the fuse box. When Bugs emerges, Elmer starts shooting. Bugs will not cooperate being shot at and Bugs takes this as professional jealousy, but on a scale he had never imagined. As Bugs leaves the studio with Elmer in pursuit, the producer holds up a sign to the camera that says "Program Temporarily Interrupted. Please Stand By." Elmer chases Bugs all over the studio. In the first room, Bugs does a Show called You Beat Your Wife (a parody of You Bet Your Life) and Bugs dressed as Groucho Marx contests Elmer. As Bugs walks off, Elmer sees Bugs in disguise and Bugs kisses him. In the next room Elmer gets a cherry pie in his face for the show Youre Asking For It (a parody of You Asked for It). In the following room Bugs plays "Liver-ace" (a parody of Liberace), and when Elmer comes in, he is playing the piano. When Bugs sees Elmer, he shows piano key like teeth, calls Elmer "his brother George", and tells Elmer to take the candelabra over to Mother. The candles are actually sticks of dynamite and blow up Elmer tattered. While chasing Bugs out the studio and looking for him, Elmer asks Bugs (who is dressed as a studio usher) if he has seen a rabbit go by. Bugs sends Elmer into a studio that was filming You Were There (a parody of You Are There) which was reenacting Custers Last Stand. As Elmer comes out having been attack by Indians, Bugs redirects Elmer to Studio C for The Medic. Elmer says "Oh, much obliged" as he is leaves with a tomahawk in the back of his head and three arrows in his back. Elmer continues his search for Bugs stating that unless he finds "that wabbit", his career will be ruined. Finally, Bugs appears dressed as a producer, then sends Elmer into a show called Fancy Dress Party (a parody of The Arthur Murray Dance Party), Elmer gets changed into a rabbit costume, and Bugs gets into Elmers hunting outfit. Bugs goes back on The Sportsmans Hour and shoots Elmer in his rabbit suit as Elmer gets angry. Bugs then comes in dressed as Ed Norton from The Honeymooners and gives Elmer a cigar with Groucho Marxs glasses and eyebrows while quoting "Hey, hey hey!. Take it easy. Have a cigar. Geez, what a Groucho."
Wideo Wabbit
1956