In Verona Beach, the Capulets and the Montagues are arch-rivals. The animosity of the older generation—Fulgencio and Gloria Capulet and Ted and Caroline Montague—is felt by their younger relatives. A gunfight between the Montague boys led by Benvolio, Romeos cousin, and the Capulet boys led by Tybalt, Juliets cousin, creates chaos in the city. The Chief of Police, Captain Prince, reprimands the families, warning them that if such behavior continues, their lives "shall pay the forfeit of the peace". Benvolio meets Romeo on a beach. While playing a game of pool they learn of a party being held by the Capulets that evening which they decide to gate-crash. Romeo agrees to come after discovering that Rosaline, with whom he is in love, is attending. Later, the Montague boys meet their friend, Mercutio, who has tickets to the party. Romeo takes ecstasy Mercutio gave him and they proceed to the Capulet mansion. The effects of the drug and the party overwhelm Romeo, who goes to the restroom. While admiring an aquarium, he sees Juliet on the other side, and the two instantly fall in love. Tybalt spots Romeo and vows to kill him for invading his familys home, but Fulgencio stops him. Romeo and Juliet sneak into an elevator and kiss. The nurse spots them when the doors open and drags Juliet away, telling her that Romeo is a Montague. At the same time, Romeo realizes that Juliet is a Capulet. Mercutio takes Romeo from the party, but he sneaks back to the mansion, hiding under Juliet’s balcony. Juliet emerges into the courtyard and proclaims her love for Romeo before he sneaks up behind her. Juliet warns him that he is risking his life, but Romeo tells her he doesnt care whether he is caught. Knowing her nurse is looking for her, Juliet tells him that, if he sends word by the following day, they will be betrothed. The next day, Romeo visits Father Laurence, telling him he wants to marry Juliet. He agrees to marry the pair in hopes that their marriage will end the violence between the families. Romeo passes the word on to Juliet’s nurse and the lovers are married. Tybalt encounters Mercutio at the beach just as Romeo arrives. Romeo attempts to make peace, but Tybalt assaults him. Mercutio intervenes and batters Tybalt, and is about to finish him off when Romeo stops him. Tybalt then slashes Mercutio with a shard of glass in his stomach. Mercutio curses both the Montagues and the Capulets before dying in Romeos arms. Enraged, Romeo chases after a fleeing Tybalt and guns him down. Captain Prince banishes Romeo from the city. Romeo goes into hiding with Father Laurence, who treats his injuries and says that, after some time passes, he will help Romeo and Juliet return to the city and reconcile with their family and friends. The nurse arrives and tells Romeo that Juliet is waiting for him. When Romeo climbs over Juliets balcony, she kisses him and they consummate their marriage. Meanwhile, Fulgencio decides Juliet will marry Dave Paris, the governors son. The next morning, Romeo narrowly escapes the Capulet mansion as Gloria tells Juliet that the family has promised she will marry Paris. She refuses, and Fulgencio threatens to disown her. Her mother and nurse insist it would be in her best interest to marry Paris. To get out of this, Juliet runs away and seeks out Father Laurence, imploring him to help her and threatening to commit suicide. Father Laurence proposes she fake her own death and be put in the Capulet vault to awaken 24 hours later. Romeo will be told of the plot, sneak into the vault, and once reunited the two can escape to Mantua. He gives her a potion which mimics death. After saying goodnight to her mother, Juliet drinks the potion and slips into a coma. She is found in the morning, declared dead, and placed in the vault. Balthasar, one of Romeos cousins, learns that Juliet is dead and tells Romeo, who is not home when the messenger arrives with a letter from Father Laurence. Romeo returns to Verona and buys a vial of poison. As he goes to the church, Captain Prince finds out he is back, and tries to capture him, without success. Father Laurence learns that Romeo never got his letter and has no idea Juliet is alive. Romeo enters the church where Juliet lies and bids her goodbye. She awakens just as Romeo takes the poison; the two thus see each other and share a final kiss before he dies. A distraught Juliet picks up Romeos gun and shoots herself in the head, dying instantly. The two lovers are soon discovered in each others arms. Prince condemns both families, whose feuding led to such tragedy, while coroners quickly transport the two bodies to the morgue.
William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet
1996