When a prophecy states that a female child with a special birthmark will herald the downfall of the evil sorceress Queen Bavmorda, she imprisons all pregnant women in her realm to prevent its fulfillment. When the child is born, the mother begs the midwife to hide the infant and smuggle her to safety. The midwife reluctantly accepts and leaves Nockmaar Castle unnoticed. The mother is executed; the midwife is hunted down and eventually found. Knowing she cannot escape, the midwife sets the baby on a makeshift raft of grass and sends her down a river before being killed by Nockmaar hounds. Bavmorda, furious about the escape, sends her daughter Sorsha and her armys commander, General Kael, to find the baby. The baby drifts downriver to a village of Nelwyn (dwarves). She comes into the care of Willow Ufgood, a kind farmer and conjurer with hopes to become a real sorcerer. His wife Kaiya and his children fall in love with the baby immediately, and Willow, after some resistance, quickly grows to love her as well. The village is attacked by a lone Nockmaar hound; after being killed by the village warriors, they deduce it was after a baby. Willow reveals the baby to the High Aldwin, the village sorcerer. He declares the child special and that she must be taken back to the Daikini (humans). Willow, due to his love for the child, is selected to accompany the party of volunteers in returning the baby. At the Daikini Crossroads, they find a human warrior named Madmartigan trapped in a crows cage. While the rest of the party want to give the baby to Madmartigan and go home immediately, Willow and his friend Meegosh refuse, so the others leave. After spending the night at the crossroads and meeting an army led by Airk Thaughbaer, an old friend of Madmartigans marching against Bavmorda, Willow reluctantly decides to free Madmartigan and hand the baby over to him. As Meegosh and Willow are headed home, they find the baby was stolen by a group of Brownies. They chase the Brownies and are trapped, but are rescued by the Fairy Queen Cherlindrea. Cherlindrea tells Willow that the baby is Elora Danan, the future empress of Tir Asleen, and Bavmordas bane. She gives Willow her wand and assigns him the task of helping Elora fulfill her destiny. Willow sends Meegosh home and two of the Brownies, Franjean and Rool, are assigned to help Willow find the sorceress Fin Raziel. The three of them find Madmartigan at a tavern, where he is disguised as a woman to hide from Lug, a cuckolded husband. Sorsha arrives and reveals his identity; Lug, furious upon the realization that Madmartigan is not a woman, starts a brawl, allowing Willow, Madmartigan, and the brownies to escape. Madmartigan guides them to the lake where Raziel lives before departing. They find Raziel, but discover she has been transformed into a possum by Bavmorda. Willow and his party return with her to shore but encounter Sorsha, who already has Madmartigan in custody. They are taken to a snowbound mountain camp of the Nockmaar army where Willow tries to restore Raziel, but turns her into a rook instead. Madmartigan is accidentally dosed with love dust by the Brownies during their escape and winds up declares his undying love for Sorsha, much to her disbelief. The prisoners escape with the baby and reach a village at the foot of the mountain. While hiding, they again encounter Airk and what remains of his army, recently defeated by Bavmordas forces. Madmartigan proclaims his loyalty to the Nelwyn and promises to protect Willow and Elora. They take Sorsha hostage, but she escapes to tell Kael where they are going. They arrive at the castle of Tir Asleen only to discover that it is now overrun by trolls and the inhabitants have all been cursed by Bavmorda. Madmartigan finds armor and weapons as he prepares for the assault from Kael and Sorsha. During the fighting, Sorsha realizes she has feelings for Madmartigan and decides to join him and Willow in opposing her mother. Willow accidentally turns a troll into an eborsisk, a massive, fire-breathing, two-headed dragon-like monster that begins attacking everything it sees. Airk arrives with his army, turning the tide of battle. Kael kidnaps Elora and escapes to Nockmaar where he reports Sorshas betrayal to Bavmorda. She orders the preparation of the ritual to banish Eloras soul. Airks army, Willow, and the others arrive at Nockmaar to lay siege, but Bavmorda turns most of them into pigs. Willow escapes when Raziel has him use a spell to avoid transformation. He succeeds in turning Raziel human again, and she removes Bavmordas spell from the army. They trick their way into the castle and, in the ensuing battle, Airk is killed by Kael, who is in turn slain by Madmartigan after a lengthy sword duel. Sorsha leads Willow and Raziel to the ritual chamber, interrupting Eloras sacrifice. Bavmorda incapacitates Sorsha and then duels magically with Raziel; Raziel loses but is only knocked out. Willow uses an "old disappearing pig trick" to fool Bavmorda into thinking that Elora has been sent to a dimension beyond her reach; enraged, Bavmorda accidentally triggers the final part of the ritual, banishing her own soul instead. Willow is rewarded with a magic book to aid him in becoming a sorcerer, and Sorsha and Madmartigan remain in a restored Tir Asleen to raise Elora together. Willow returns home to a heros welcome and performs a true magic trick, much to the delight of the High Aldwin, before being happily reunited with his family.
Willow (film)
1988