Willard Stiles (Crispin Glover) is a social misfit taking care of his ill and fragile but verbally abusive mother Henrietta (Jackie Burroughs) in a musty old mansion that is also home to a colony of rats. Willard finds himself constantly humiliated in front of his co-workers by his cruel boss, Frank Martin (R. Lee Ermey), a vicious man who assumed control of the company from Willards father upon his death by suicide, and whose professional interest in Willard extends to a personal financial one. A co-worker, Cathryn (Laura Elena Harring), has sympathy for the quirky Willard. Cathryn becomes Willards friend and love interest. Willard quickly becomes obsessed with his friendship with a white rat he names Socrates. Willard then begins to train and befriend the other rats, including an extra large one he names Ben. Ben begins to assume a position of "leadership" among the other rats, while Socrates remains Willards favorite. After he trains the rats sufficiently, Willard takes them to Martins home, where he orders them to chew up the tires on Martins Mercedes-Benz. Willards mother panics when she overhears the rats and later dies by falling down the stairs of the basement. Now Socrates is all he has left. Willard learns soon afterward that the payments on the house have fallen far behind and that the bank will likely foreclose upon the property. Desperately lonely, Willard begins to bring Socrates to work with him. He then finds a note at his desk declaring that he is being fired by Frank Martin from the company his father founded. While he is arguing with Martin, begging not to be fired, Socrates is discovered by Ms. Leach in the supply room. Her screams alert Martin who bludgeons Socrates to death. Willard, his mental state already precarious, is devastated (especially since he knows that he could have done nothing to prevent Socrates death from happening). He turns to Ben, who is more than willing to guide the colony of rats to help Willard avenge himself upon his boss. Willard and his rats confront Martin and upon Willards command they swarm onto Martin and kill him. However, Willard mistrusts Ben and attempts to dispose of him and the other rats by putting poison in the basement. He succeeds in killing some, but Ben remains and turns the remaining rat army against Willard. Willard barely escapes with his life and kills Ben, however shortly afterwards Cathryn, who has learned of Martins death, arrives with a couple of police detectives. An epilogue reveals that Willard has retreated into a semi-catatonic state and has been placed in a mental institution. Unknown to anyone, a white rat appears in his cell which looks like Socrates. Believing that the rat is his only friend reborn, the now completely deranged Willard tells the rat "Its not over yet, no! Our time is going to come."
Willard (2003 film)
2003