During a winter season in Wind River Indian Reservation in Wyoming, expert tracker and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service agent Cory Lambert discovers the frozen body of 18-year-old Natalie Hanson, without shoes or proper winter attire, and with a blood-stained groin. Rookie FBI special agent Jane Banner arrives to determine whether the death was a homicide. The next day, Jane learns from Natalies father, Martin, that his daughter was dating a new boyfriend, but he does not know the mans name or whereabouts. The autopsy returns findings of blunt trauma and sexual violence and confirms Corys deduction that the girl had died from exposure, specifically pulmonary hemorrhage caused by rapid inhalation of sub-zero air. However, the medical examiner is unable to confirm the death as a homicide, therefore preventing Jane from calling in an additional FBI investigative unit. Cory learns Natalies boyfriend is named Matt and works security at a nearby oil drilling site. The next day another body is discovered—this time male—nude and heavily ravaged by scavenging wildlife. Jane is told that the male body has been identified as Matt Rayburn, a security guard from the drilling rig. Cory then tells Jane about the death of his daughter three years before, whose body was discovered in the snow, following a party at his house while he and his wife had been out of town. Jane, accompanied by Tribal Police Chief Ben Shoyo and additional policemen, visit the drill site where they meet several of the security guards, who tell her they have not seen Matt since he stormed off a few days ago following an argument with Natalie. When Jane tells the guards that she is investigating Matts disappearance, they reveal their knowledge of the discovery of Natalies body. The guards claim to have learned of it by monitoring law enforcement radio channels. She points out that Natalies name was never mentioned over the radio. One of the visiting policemen notices that the security guards have started to surround Jane and her team. The confrontation quickly escalates into an armed standoff as they argue over who has jurisdiction, which Jane finally defuses by asserting federal authority over the others. Jane insists that she wants to see where Matt has been bunking, and they resume their approach to the trailer. A flashback then depicts Natalie cuddling with Matt in his trailer. Unexpectedly, his security colleagues barge into the trailer after a night of hard drinking. Pete, a particularly vulgar crew member, taunts them and tries to sexually assault Natalie, which provokes Matt to violence. The guards retaliate by beating Matt down while Pete rapes Natalie. When Matt attempts to fight back, the group beats him to death, giving Natalie the opportunity to escape. Back in present time, Cory has retraced the tracks up to Matts corpse and finds that it leads directly into the drilling camp just as Janes group of policemen approach the drill crews sleeping quarters. Cory warns Ben by radio but Jane is hit by a shotgun blast fired through the door by Pete before she can get out of the way. A firefight ensues, in which Ben and the other policemen are killed. As the surviving security guards prepare to execute Jane to cover up any loose ends, Cory picks off all the remaining guards with his rifle, except for Pete, who flees on foot. Cory catches Pete and brings him to the top of a mountain. After forcing a confession from Pete, Cory offers him the same chance Natalie had, a barefoot escape toward a distant road in clothes not suitable for winter. Pete runs for his life but stumbles through the snow for only a few dozen yards before his lungs give out and he dies from the same pulmonary hemorrhage that killed Natalie. Cory visits Jane in the hospital and praises her toughness. He later visits Martin, finding him outside his house wearing his "death face" paint. Cory tells Martin that the case is closed and that the man responsible for Natalies death went out "with a whimper." They sit together sharing the grief of their daughters deaths. A title card states that missing-persons statistics are kept for every demographic group, except for Native American women, whose numbers remain unknown.
Wind River (film)
2017