In 1940, Corky Jones and Gil Borden come to Burbank, California, looking for jobs. They get work at the Lockheed aircraft factory. Though the United States is still neutral, the country is frantically gearing up for war, and Lockheed is producing fighters and bombers. As he has little money before his first paycheck, Corky stays with his friend Brad Maple and his wife Roma (whom he tried to pick up earlier before he knew who she was). Brad is unemployed, even though factory jobs are plentiful, because he thinks they are beneath him. This strains the marriage. At work, Corky befriends Jake Hanso and his son Pete. Pete is studying to become a military pilot. Corky rents a room from Jake after Brad becomes jealous of him. Later, Jake is let go because he is not an American citizen, enraging Pete. However, Jake and Corky calm him down, and Pete is accepted into the United States Army Air Corps as originally planned. Jake opens a diner. Later, he becomes a citizen and goes back to work building airplanes. Meanwhile, Roma leaves Brad. Corky, though sheer persistence, manages to get her to go out with him. Brad finally swallows his pride and gets a job at the Lockheed factory. This pleases Roma, who also now works at the factory, but not enough to take him back. This leads to an uneasy romantic triangle. In the end, Corky arranges for Roma and Brad to get back together. When the Japanese launch a sneak attack on Pearl Harbor, Pete reports back to base and is shipped out. For the 2000th airplane produced, a Lockheed Hudson bomber, the factory holds a ceremony. The company president singles out Jake, who played a major part in speeding up production tremendously. However, Jake has just received a telegram informing him that Pete was killed in action in the Philippines. He asks Corky, who has himself enlisted, to shoot down a couple of Japanese aircraft for Pete. Corky promises to do so. While Corky is flying a Hudson, his turret gunner shoots down two attacking Japanese fighters.
Wings for the Eagle
1942