The story opens with Winnie the Pooh going through his morning exercises during which he accidentally rips the stitching on his bottom. After repairing his torn rump he goes to his pantry for some breakfast, only to discover he is out of honey. He hears a bee fly by and decides to climb a nearby honey tree, but as he reaches the beehive, a branch he is sitting on breaks, causing him to fall and land in a gorse bush. Needing help, Pooh decides to go to Christopher Robins house to get a blue balloon from him. His plan is to cover himself in mud to disguise himself as a rain cloud and use the balloon to float up to the hive. Pooh floats up to the honey tree and takes out a handful of honey, not seeing that there are bees all over it. Pooh eats the honey as well as the bees on it which fly around inside his mouth causing him to spit them out, one of which is the queen bee which he kicks down towards the muddy patch that he covered himself in. By now the others bees realise what has happened now that the mud is starting to drip off Pooh. The queen bee sees this and angrily flies up and stings his bottom. The sudden hit causes Pooh to swing back and forth, jamming his bottom into the bee hive. He is then freed due to every bee coming out of the hive to chase him. His balloon deflates and he caught by Christopher Robin. The then bees proceed to chase the two down, and they barely manage to escape them by jumping into the mud puddle. With honey still on his mind, Pooh heads to Rabbits house in hopes of getting some. The reluctant Rabbit invites Pooh in, despite realizing the bears vast appetite, and Pooh proceeds to eat him out of all his honey. Pooh ends up becoming very rotund, and as he tries to exit Rabbits house, he finds himself stuck and unable to fit through his front door. After a worried Rabbit tries to free Pooh by pushing his over-sized bottom, he runs off to get Christoper Robin for help, Owl flies by and examines Poohs predicament. The two are met by Gopher, who suggests that he blast Pooh out with dynamite for pay. Rabbit returns with Christopher Robin, and they unsuccessfully try to pull Pooh out. With Rabbit refusing to push him back in, Christopher Robin decides that Pooh will just have to wait until he gets thin again. Rabbit decides to make the best of the bad situation and pleasures himself by disguising Poohs voluptuous bottom. One night, while Pooh is asleep, Gopher appears once again, taking a break from his "swing shift" to eat lunch. One of the things Gopher is snacking on is a jar of honey, and Rabbit manages to prevent Pooh from having some and wards Gopher off. Some time later, Rabbit wakes up and discovers that Poohs shapely bottom has slightly shrunken, meaning it is now possible to get him out. He gets Christopher Robin, who gathers Kanga, Eeyore, Owl, Roo, and Gopher, and they all pull on Pooh from outside the house while Rabbit pushes him from inside. Finally, Rabbit charges into Pooh, which sends him flying out of the front door, through the sky, and into the honey tree, which scares away the bees inside. The gang arrives at the scene, and Christopher Robin promises Pooh that they will help him get out again. However, Pooh tells them to take their time, for now he has an ample supply of honey to eat.
Winnie the Pooh and the Honey Tree
1966