The story begins with Tigger wanting to ski, but Winnie the Pooh and Piglet point out that theres no snow. So, they go ask Rabbit what day of the year it is, but after opening his front door and letting the wind blow in, Rabbits calendar pages (November to February) get torn off and get swept under Rabbits bed, but he doesnt realize it, and claims that its February 2, Groundhog Day. In an effort to find out if there are two more weeks of winter or if spring comes tomorrow, they ask Gopher if he sees his shadow. Gopher angrily points out hes a gopher not a groundhog, so they have Piglet pretend to be a groundhog. His hat falls over his eyes, preventing him from seeing. Thinking that winter is over, they all prepare for spring by airing out their houses, planting gardens and spring cleaning. Piglet returns home, feeling happy about telling his friends that winter is over, but later that day, it snows. Tigger is puzzled to see that its snowing during spring while snow is being blown into Poohs house. A discouraged Rabbit confronts Piglet for lying to them and tells him that its all his fault, and goes home to see wind blowing into his house and the calendar pages being blown outside. After putting the lost pages back on the calendar, he realizes that its not Groundhog Day, its only November 13. Feeling awful for what he said, Rabbit goes to apologize to Piglet, only to find a note from Piglet saying that hes gone to look for a real groundhog. Rabbit frantically goes looking for Piglet. Meanwhile, Piglet cant find a groundhog, and decides to go home after a pile of snow falls on him, and he leaves his hat behind on the pile of snow. Rabbit finds the pile of snow. Thinking that its Piglet frozen solid, he rushes to Poohs house, where he, Tigger and Pooh melt the snow. Thinking that Piglet has melted, Rabbit solemnly cries, and apologizes for everything, only to realize that the real Piglet is behind him and the melted snow was just a normal pile of snow. Rabbit tells everyone that its November 13. So, they decide to get ready for Thanksgiving. A month later, on Christmas Eve, Rabbit tells the story of how he met a baby bluebird named Kessie. Later that summer, Owl teaches her to fly. Rabbit refuses to let her fly, and with that, they go home. In the fall, Kessie looks out the window to see wild ducks flying South for the winter. For days, she tries to fly, but is discovered by Pooh, who promises not to tell Rabbit. Pooh, Tigger, and Piglet have an idea on how to get Kessie South for the winter, a giant slingshot. When Kessie is about to take off, Rabbit arrives, and stops him. He yells at Pooh, and tells Tigger to let go of the slingshot. Tigger lets go, and Rabbit is hit, and falls off the same cliff Kessie had fallen off of that summer. Kessie quickly swoops down, and grabs Rabbit, and brings him back to the top. The next morning, Owl, Pooh, Piglet, and Tigger say goodbye to Kessie as she prepares to fly South. Meanwhile, Rabbit is in his garden feeling sad, and stubs his toe on a potted carrot, that Kessie had planted. He rushes to say goodbye to Kessie, but finds hes too late now and Kessie is gone. However, he is happy when Kessie comes back to say goodbye. Later that day, Pooh and Piglet are relaxing by Christopher Robins favorite tree talking about how Rabbit loved Kessie, and how they cant wait to see her again. Back in the present, Rabbit tells Roo that he hasnt seen Kessie since then, as Tigger cries. Rabbit looks at his clock to see that its getting late, and hurries everyone outside to decorate a tree. Christopher Robin arrives to help decorate. After the tree is done, Rabbit realizes he forgot the most important part, a star to go on top of the tree. Rabbit is really sad, but then sees a falling star. Everyone gathers to make a wish, only to realize that its not a falling star, its Kessie holding a star, which she puts on the tree. Rabbit and Kessie hug, and Kessie wishes Rabbit a Merry Christmas, ending the story.
Winnie the Pooh: Seasons of Giving
1999