Clare Shannon, a 17-year old, is haunted by the memory of her mothers suicide. Her father Jonathan, a former musician and compulsive hoarder who dumpster dives as a hobby, finds a Chinese music box and gives it to her as a gift. Clare deciphers one of the numerous inscriptions on the box as "Seven Wishes," and absent-mindedly wishes for Darcie, her tormentor and school bully, to "rot," at which point Darcie develops necrotizing fasciitis and is admitted into the ICU. That same day, Clares dog Max dies in her houses crawlspace after seemingly being eaten alive by rats. Clare realizes that the box grants wishes, but does not understand that her wishes come with consequences. Clare makes a second wish that a popular boy named Paul falls in love with her. As a result, her wealthy uncle dies. Upon hearing the news of his death, Clare then wishes she will be in the will. The relative leaves everything to Clare. Consequently Mrs. Deluca, a friendly neighbor, suffers a fatal accident. Clare enlists the help of her classmate Ryan Hui to decypher the symbols. A relative of Ryan named Gina helps discover the meaning of the symbols grants seven wishes with consequences. Clares fourth wish is for her father to stop being a dumpster diver and he immediately has a personality shift. Soon after, Gina deciphers the meaning of the phrase which says "When the music ends, the blood price is paid." After she warns Ryan, she dies. Ryan finds Ginas body and confronts Clare about making wishes on the music box, which she denies. Clare makes a fifth wish that she is popular, but Clare is soon unhappy with the consequent attention and that she loses her relationship with her friends. As a consequence of the wish, Meredith gets stuck in an elevator and, when the cable snaps, falls to her death. Ryan reveals that after the seventh wish is granted, the music box will claim the soul of the owner. Attempts to destroy the box are unsuccessful. Furthermore, because June has stolen the box, Clare loses her popularity and everything else she wished for. Clare recovers the box and her sixth wish is that her mother never committed suicide. Clares mom knocks on her bedroom door along with two younger sisters. Clare later rummages through her mom’s paintings and sees a picture of the music box. She concludes that her mom was one of the previous owners of the music box and that it must have led to her original suicide. When Clare realizes her dad pays the price for the sixth wish, Clares seventh wish is to go back to the day her father found the box. Preventing her father from finding the box, and erasing all that has happened, Clare then asks Ryan to bury the box. Clare believes all is well but she is killed when her bully Darcie accidentally hits her with her car, in order to pay the final blood price. The music box can be heard after Clares death, indicating that the seventh wish to reverse time would be balanced by her own death. In a mid-credits scene, Ryan prepares to bury the music box but becomes intrigued by the inscription and starts to think.
Wish Upon
2017