In 1984, an Amish community attends the funeral of Jacob Lapp, who leaves behind his wife Rachel and eight-year-old son Samuel. Later, Rachel and Samuel travel by train to visit Rachels sister, which takes them into Philadelphia. While waiting for a connecting train, Samuel goes into the mens room and witnesses two men attack and murder a third, narrowly escaping detection as he hides in the stalls. Detective John Book is assigned to the case, and he and his partner, Sergeant Elton Carter, question Samuel. It turns out the victim was an undercover police officer. Samuel is unable to identify the lone perpetrator whose face he saw from mug shots or a lineup. However, at the police station, Samuel sees a newspaper clipping in which narcotics officer James McFee is honored for his exemplary service, and points him out to John. John remembers that McFee was previously responsible for a seizure of chemicals used to make amphetamines, but the evidence had disappeared. John confides his suspicions to Chief Paul Schaeffer, who advises John to keep the case secret so they can work out how to move forward. But John is later ambushed in a parking garage and badly wounded by McFee. Since only Schaeffer knew of Johns suspicions, John realizes Schaeffer is also corrupt and tipped off McFee. John calls Carter and orders him to remove the Lapp file from the records. He then hides his car and uses his sisters car to return Rachel and Samuel to Lancaster County. While attempting to return to the city, John passes out in the vehicle in front of their farm. Rachel argues that taking John to a hospital would allow the corrupt police officers to find him while putting Samuel in danger. Her father-in-law Eli reluctantly agrees to shelter him, despite his distrust for the outsider. John slowly recovers in their care, and begins to develop feelings for Rachel, who is likewise drawn to him. The Lapps neighbor Daniel Hochleitner had hoped to court her, and this becomes a cause of friction. Johns relationship with the Amish community grows as they learn he is skilled at carpentry. He is invited to participate in a barn raising for a newly married couple and gains Hochleitners respect. However, the attraction between John and Rachel is evident and clearly concerns Eli and others. That night, John comes upon Rachel as she bathes, and she stands half-naked before him, but he walks away. John goes into town with Eli to use a payphone, and learns that Carter has been killed. He deduces that it was Schaeffer and McFee, who are intensifying their efforts to find him and are joined by a third corrupt officer, Ferguson. In town, Hochleitner is harassed by locals. Breaking with the Amish tradition of nonviolence, John retaliates. The fight is reported to the local police, who inform Schaeffer. The next day, the corrupt officers arrive at the Lapp farm and search for John and Samuel, taking Rachel and Eli hostage. John orders Samuel to run to Hochleitners home for safety, then tricks Ferguson into the corn silo and suffocates him under tons of corn. He retrieves Fergusons shotgun and kills McFee. Schaeffer then forces Rachel and Eli out of the house at gunpoint; Eli signals to Samuel to ring the farms bell. John confronts Schaeffer, who threatens to kill Rachel, but the loud clanging from the bell summons the Amish neighbors. With so many witnesses present, Schaeffer realizes he cant escape, and gives up. As John prepares to leave, he says goodbye to Samuel in the fields. He and Rachel share a long loving gaze on the porch. Finally, Eli wishes him well "out there among them English", signifying his acceptance of John as a member of their community. Book smiles, drives away, and exchanges a wave with Hochleitner on the road out.
Witness (1985 film)
1985