Will Randall is bitten by a wolf while driving home in Vermont. Afterwards, he is demoted from editor-in-chief of a publishing house when it is taken over by tycoon Raymond Alden, who replaces him with Wills protégé Stewart Swinton. Will finds out that Swinton had begged Alden for the job behind Wills back and suspects that Swinton is having an affair with his wife Charlotte, after he smells Stewarts scent on her clothes. Will bites Stewart on the hand while entering his apartment and rushes to the room to find Charlotte half-naked. His worst fears are confirmed and he leaves without saying a word. Will becomes more aggressive, taking on the characteristics of a wolf. With the help of Aldens headstrong daughter Laura, Will sets out for his new life. His first escapade as a werewolf takes place at Lauras estate, where he wakes up at night and hunts down a deer. In the morning, Will finds himself on the bank of a stream, with blood all over his face and hands. He visits Dr. Vijav Alezais, who gives him an amulet to protect him from turning completely into a wolf. Alezais asks Will to bite him, as Alezais does not have long to live and would prefer "demonization to death". After refusing, Will keeps the amulet so that he will not transform at the next full moon. That night Will transforms into a werewolf again, breaks into the zoo and steals handcuffs from a policeman. Muggers want his wallet, but he attacks and bites the fingers off of one of them. He wakes up in his hotel, with no memory of what happened. Will organizes a mutiny of writers, who threaten to leave the publishing house unless he is retained as editor-in-chief. Alden agrees and Wills first act is to fire Stewart, urinating on his shoes in a bathroom and claiming he is "marking his territory". While washing his hands, Will finds fingers in his handkerchief and realizes he has attacked and wounded someone. He cuffs himself to the radiator in his hotel room, but Laura arrives and downplays his belief that he is a werewolf. The next morning Detective Bridger knocks on Wills door to inform him that Charlotte was found dead in Central Park with canine DNA on her body. Will then wonders if he murdered Charlotte, but he does not know that it was Stewart who killed her. Believing Will is a murderer, Laura goes to the police station. There she runs into Stewart, who makes an animal-like pass at her while sporting increasingly obvious werewolf traits. Laura hurries away, making arrangements for her and Will to leave the country. Stewart follows Laura back to her fathers estate and kills two guards. After a brief struggle in the barn, Stewart attempts to rape her, Will intervenes, and the two fight. Stewart is shot to death by Laura. Still in a half-human state, Will has a brief moment with Laura and then runs into the forest. Minutes later, Laura shows heightened senses when the police arrive, telling Bridger that she can smell vodka on his breath. The final scene is a close-up of her face fading into dark, wolf eyes, and a close up of Will completing his transformation into a full werewolf.
Wolf (1994 film)
1994