The womens air derby from Los Angeles to Cleveland means a lot to young aviator Janet Steele (Kay Francis), who uses every trick in the book to try to persuade record-setting pilot Ace Boreman (William Gargan) to lend her his very fast aircraft. Ace is reluctant, but Janet steals his craft to demonstrate her skill. He also learns that she is the sister of Bill Steele (Charles Anthony Hughes), a pilot friend of his who crashed and is bedridden. When Ace discovers that Janet needs the money to pay for an operation for Bill, he has no further objections to Janet flying his airplane. Complications ensue when Aces estranged ex-wife Frieda (Sheila Bromley) notifies him their Mexican divorce is not legal. The airplane remains half hers, and she intends to go after the derbys $15,000 first prize herself. She manages to convince Janet that Ace is a heel. Ace is able to get his buddy Denny Corson (Eddie Foy, Jr.), who has just broken his speed record, to let Janet use his home-built aircraft instead, without letting Janet know that Ace is responsible. In the race, Janet reaches the first stopover at Wichita first, with Frieda close behind. Janet and Aces friend Kit Campbell (Eve Arden) crashes after her engine catches fire. Janet wants to stay with her, but Kit insists she is okay; she also hands Janet a letter. The letter is from Doc; he loves Janet himself, but writes that it was Ace who got her Dennys airplane. Meanwhile, Frieda runs into an acquaintance working as a race mechanic. He asks her if it is worth $2000 to her to have Janets airplane sabotaged. When she agrees, the mechanic arranges a fuel leak. Janet is forced to land on a farm. She manages to refuel, but as she is taking off again, she clips something and one of the wheels on her landing gear is torn off without her noticing. When Janet flies into a severe electrical storm, her radio is disabled. Frieda and Janet are neck and neck at the finish in Cleveland. The people on the ground see that Janets landing gear is damaged, but are unable to notify her. Frieda, hearing the radio message, signals Janet about her danger, forfeiting her own opportunity to win. Janet is able to land safely and win the race. Afterward, she thanks Frieda, who also hands Ace a telegram that says the divorce was legal after all, so Janet wins Ace as well.
Women in the Wind
1939