August "Auggie" Pullman is a young boy raised in North River Heights in upper Manhattan, New York. He has a rare medical facial deformity, which he refers to as "mandibulofacial dysostosis." Due to numerous surgeries (27), Auggie had been home-schooled by his parents Isabel and Nate, but as Auggie is approaching middle school age, Isabel and Nate decide to send him to Beecher Prep, a mainstream private school. Fifth grade is tough for Auggie who is ostracized by nearly all the student body. He is bullied by being called a freak and rumors were spread that kids will get the "plague" if they touch him. He does befriend a boy named Jack Will. Halloween is Auggies favorite holiday. He has to wear an old "Ghostface" mask and costume because his dog, Daisy, threw up on his "Boba Fett" costume. He walks around school unrecognized and is not tormented while incognito. As he walks through the door to his homeroom, he overhears his friend Jack telling Julian Albans that he was "only pretending to be friends with Auggie." Feeling betrayed, Auggie leaves school and wants to stay home during trick-or-treating. His older sister Olivia, nicknamed "Via," tells him she is still his friend and talks him out of it. Auggie later confides the incident to a new friend, named Summer, but swears her to secrecy. When Jack notices that Auggie has become quiet and distant he asks Summer why, but she only gives him the clue "Ghost Face". Jack is shocked when it dawns on him that it was Auggie wearing the Ghost Face costume, and thus had overheard everything he said to Julian. When Julian calls Auggie a "freak," Jack angrily punches him in the face and a fight ensues between the two, which is soon broken up by their homeroom teacher Mr. Browne. Jack is suspended for two days for his actions. He apologizes to Auggie and the two friends reconcile. They even team up for a winning science project. During the middle of the school year, Auggie is constantly bullied by Julian and his friends Amos, Miles, and Henry. They leave hurtful and threatening notes on his desk and tape their class picture on his locker with Auggie photoshopped out. Mr. Tushman confronts Julian and his parents. Julians mother assures the principal that her boy is no bully. She even proclaims that she had Auggie edited out of the picture because she didnt want people to only care about Auggie and his family more than Julian. She also threatens to pull their funding from the school. Tushman shows all of his evidence and suspends Julian for two days, along with making him stay home from the annual nature retreat. As he and his parents leave, a remorseful Julian apologizes to Tushman for his behavior which the principal proudly accepts. Via has her own teen problems as well as feeling left out with all of the parental attention given to her sick brother. Her best friend, Miranda, has been ignoring her all year but she meets a new boy Justin who encourages her to join Drama Club. Via and Justin develop a close friendship which later turns into a romantic relationship and her first kiss. Via is selected to be an understudy for the lead role in the schools production of "Our Town," but Miranda gets the lead role. Miranda realizes the pain and harm shes done to Via, and on opening night pretends to fall ill. Via takes her place and gives a performance that earns her a standing ovation. During the nature retreat, Auggie and Jack are harassed by a group of seventh graders from another school and Amos, Miles, and Henry come to their defense. After their return to school, Auggie is generally more accepted by his classmates, including the reformed Julian. At the schools year end graduation ceremony, Tushman announces that Auggie has been selected for the Henry Ward Beecher Medal for being a strong standing out student. Auggie receives a standing ovation. His mother Isabel calls Auggie her "wonder". The movie ends with a shot of a floating astronaut: Auggies goal in life.
Wonder (film)
2017