Woo (Smith) is an extroverted woman living in New York City, and she has a notorious knack for turning men into mush. When Woos psychic friend Celestrial (Girlina) predicts that the man of her dreams is about to enter her life, Woo doesnt believe it is true. Celestrial, however, is convinced that Woo is destined to meet a tall, debonair Virgo. Woos cousin Claudette (Paula Jai Parker) and Claudettes boyfriend Lenny (Dave Chappelle) plan to spend the night together but find themselves entertaining Woo instead. Lenny begs his best friend Tim Jackson (Davidson) to take Woo out - even though shy, strait-laced law clerk Tim is the polar opposite of the sassy and brassy Woo. That same night, Lenny and Claudettes night goes wrong when his sick obsession with chicken drives her to be forced to dress up as a sexy but awkward "chicken ho" (he makes her cluck and walk like a chicken) but she is allergic to feathers. At first, Woo expresses disinterest in the matchmaking mismatch. But when shes told that Tim is a Virgo, she decides it is fate, jumps at the chance, and immediately heads for Tims apartment. Meanwhile, Tim, who cant believe his luck, goes next door to his neighbor Darryl (LL Cool J) for tips on romancing women. Darryl supplies Tim with incense, edible body oils, and a tape of sexy songs. When Woo arrives, Tim is completely smitten. Woo, however, discovers that Tim is anything but the sexy, spontaneous stud of her dreams. Finding Tims pseudo-cool act totally transparent, she humiliates and teases him. They are just about to exit Tims apartment when Tim is visited by three of his pals - Frankie (Duane Martin), Hop (Darrel Heath), and Romaine (Michael Ralph). The chauvinistic attitude of Tims friends irritates Woo, so she retaliates and freaks out the trio by acting insane. Finally, the date gets underway. Woo and Tim arrive at a stuffy Italian restaurant, but Woos behavior gets them thrown out. They go to a dance club, where Tim becomes the victim, punched out by Woos ex-boyfriend. Woo likes a good laugh, and when Tim discovers the theft of his flashy new car, she finds this hilarious. And so it goes, straight on till morning.
Woo (film)
1998