Tess McGill is an American working-class stockbrokers secretary from Staten Island with a bachelors degree in Business from evening classes. She works in the mergers and acquisitions department of a Wall Street investment bank. Tess aspires to reach an executive position. Tricked by her boss into a date with his lascivious cocaine snorting colleague, she gets into trouble by publicly insulting him and is reassigned as secretary to a new financial executive, Katharine Parker. Seemingly supportive, Katharine encourages Tess to share ideas. Tess suggests that a client, Trask Industries, should invest in radio to gain a foothold in media. Katharine listens to the idea and says shell pass it through some people. Later, she says the idea wasnt well received. But when Katharine breaks her leg skiing in Europe, she asks Tess to house-sit. While at Katharines place, Tess discovers some meeting notes where Katharine plans to pass off the merger idea as her own. At home, Tess finds her boyfriend Mick Dugan in bed with another woman. Disillusioned, she returns to Katharines apartment and begins her transformation. Tess uses her bosss absence and connections, including her errant beau, executive Jack Trainer, to put forward her own idea for a merger deal. She sets up a meeting with Trainer, using her bosss name as an entrée. She wants to see Trainer the evening before the meeting at a party, which she will attend in a dress of Katharines. Before the party, when Tess suffers a panic attack, her friend Cynthia gives her a valium from Katharines bathroom. At the party, Tess unknowingly meets Jack, who is fascinated by her. They have a couple of drinks, and the combined effect of valium and alcohol lead to her waking next morning in Jacks bed. She leaves before he wakes and, entering the meeting, realizes Jack Trainer is the man she had spent the night with. She feels the pitch goes badly. Back at her desk, she is mortified about the night before, but Jack comes in and says they are happy with Tesss idea. Days later, Tess and Jack gatecrash Trasks daughters wedding and pitch their plan. Trask is interested, and a meeting is set up. Later, Tess and Jack end up in bed together. Tess wants to explain her true situation but keeps quiet after learning Jack has been in a relationship with Katharine, which he says is all but over. Katharine comes home on the day of the meeting with Trask. Tess overhears Katharine asking Jack to confirm his love for her, but he avoids answering and hurries out. Tess also rushes off, leaving her appointment book, which Katharine reads. The meeting goes well until Katharine storms in, accusing Tess, a mere secretary, of having stolen her idea. Tess protests but leaves, apologizing. Days later, Tess clears out her desk and then bumps into Jack, Katharine, and Trask in front of the lobby elevators. Tess confronts Katharine and starts to tell everyone her side of the story. Katharine tries to lead the group away, but Jack says he believes Tess. When Trask hears a convincing tidbit, he hops off the closing elevator, leaving Katharine still in the lift. Trask gets on another elevator with Jack and Tess, where Tess then gives her elevator pitch to Trask, telling him the roundabout way in which she came up with the idea for the merger. When they get to their office floor, Trask confronts Katharine, asking her how she came up with the idea. She stumbles and balks and cant really explain where the idea came from. Katharine is fired on the spot for her fraud, and Trask offers Tess an "entry-level" job with his company. Tess starts her new job, armed with a lunchbox prepared by Jack. Directed to an office, she sees a woman on the phone, assumes she is her new boss, and seats herself in the typing pool. The woman identifies herself as Alice and reveals that she is, in fact, Tess’s secretary and that Tess is the new junior executive for whom she is working. Tess insists they work together as colleagues, showing she will be very different from Katharine. She then calls Cynthia from her office overlooking Manhattan to say shes landed her dream job.
Working Girl
1988