When Litwaks Family Fun Center & Arcade closes at night, the various video game characters leave their normal in-game roles and socialize in a hub. Wreck-It Ralph, the antagonist of the game Fix-It Felix Jr., is ostracized by its other characters for just doing his job, while the titular hero Felix is praised. Tired of being mistreated, Ralph announces at the games thirtieth anniversary party that he will earn his neighbors respect by winning a medal. Ralph learns he can obtain a medal from the first-person shooter, Heros Duty. After disrupting a game session, Ralph scales the games central beacon and obtains a medal, only to hatch a Cy-Bug, one of the games monsters, which can adapt to and devour other environments. Ralph and the Cy-Bug stumble into an escape pod, which is launched out of the game, and crash land in Sugar Rush, a candy-themed kart racing game. Meanwhile, with Ralph missing, his game is labelled as malfunctioning and faces being unplugged. Felix, upon learning from Q*Bert that Ralph has "gone Turbo" (alluding to a rogue character of the same name who abandoned his own game and destroyed another out of jealousy, resulting in both being unplugged), ventures to Heros Duty, teaming up with the games heroine, Sergeant Calhoun, to retrieve Ralph and the Cy-Bug. In Sugar Rush, Ralphs medal is stolen by a little girl, Vanellope Von Schweetz, to buy her way into the daily races to determine who players can choose as their avatar. King Candy, the ruler of Sugar Rush, forbids her from racing because she has glites. Ralph and Vanellope agree to work together by building a race kart for Vanellope to win a race and retrieve the medal. With the kart, they flee to Diet Cola Mountain, an unfinished race track. As Vanellope cannot drive, Ralph helps her learn. King Candy hacks the games code, obtaining Ralphs medal, which he offers to him in exchange for preventing Vanellope from racing. He explains that if Vanellope wins and becomes playable, her glitches would be brought to the attention of players, their game would be unplugged and Vanellope would die, unable to leave the game because she is a glitch. Ralph reluctantly agrees, trashing Vanellopes kart. Returning to his own game he finds that it has been evacuated with Felix still missing, and also notices Vanellopes image on the side of the Sugar Rush cabinet, and realizes she was meant to be a playable character. Elsewhere, Felix and Calhoun search Sugar Rush for Ralph. Felix falls in love with Calhoun after they escape a pit of Nesquik-Sand, but she abandons him when he reminds her of her late fiancé, who was eaten by Cy-Bugs on their wedding day as part of her pre-programmed backstory. Felix is later imprisoned in King Candys castle, but Ralph frees him and Vanellope, and Felix rebuilds the kart. Calhoun discovers a swarm of Cy-Bug eggs underground, which hatch and start devouring the game. Vanellope participates in the race, but is attacked by King Candy. Vanellopes glitch reveals he is actually Turbo, who took over Sugar Rush, displacing Vanellope as the main character. Ralph, Felix, and Calhoun evacuate the game, but Vanellope cannot leave due to her glitch. When Calhoun points out the Cy-Bugs can be destroyed by a beacon of light as per Heros Duty, Ralph decides to make Diet Cola Mountain erupt to replicate it. Ralph is confronted by Turbo, now fused with a Cy-Bug that devoured him, and Turbo carries him away. Ralph breaks free, hits the mountain, and causes it to erupt, but Vanellope saves him using her glitch. The volcanic beacon destroys the Cy-Bugs and Turbo. Vanellope crosses the finish line, rebooting Sugar Rush and restoring her status and memory as Princess Vanellope, the main character of the game, but she still uses her glitching ability to her advantage. Ralph and Felix return home, allowing their game to be spared. Felix and Calhoun marry, while a content Ralph gains respect from his fellow characters.
Wreck-It Ralph
2012