En Sabah Nur, a powerful mutant believed to be the first of his kind, rules ancient Egypt until he is betrayed by his worshippers, who entomb him alive. His four lieutenants die preserving him. Awakening in 1983, he believes humanity has lost its way without his presence. Aiming to destroy and remake the world, he recruits a Cairo pickpocket Ororo Munroe, who can control the weather, and upgrades her power. In East Berlin, shape-shifting mutant Raven discovers Kurt Wagner, a blue skinned mutant who can teleport. Raven rescues Kurt and requests black marketeer Caliban to transport him to America. En Sabah Nur recruits Calibans enforcer, Psylocke, who leads him to mutant fighting champion Angel. En Sabah Nur enhances both of their powers, repairing Angels damaged wings and transforming them into metal. Alex Summers discovers that his younger brother Scott is manifesting a mutation for shooting optic beams. Alex takes Scott to Professor Charles Xaviers educational institute in Westchester County, New York, hoping that Xavier and Hank McCoy will teach him to control his abilities. Scott meets the telepathic and telekinetic Jean Grey, and the two develop an attraction, while Raven brings Kurt to the institute. En Sabah Nurs powers cause disturbances around the world, leading Xavier and Alex to consult with CIA operative Moira MacTaggert, who has been researching the legend of Nur. In the Polish Peoples Republic, the metal-controlling mutant Erik Lehnsherr (under the alias Henryk Górski) lives with his wife and their young daughter, Nina. When En Sabah Nurs resurrection causes a worldwide earthquake, he uses his powers to save a coworker, prompting the militia to capture him. When they accidentally kill Eriks family, he retaliates by executing them. En Sabah Nur later approaches the devastated Erik and takes him to Auschwitz, where Eriks power first manifested. Persuaded by En Sabah Nur, Eriks powers are enhanced and he destroys the camp, joining En Sabah Nur. En Sabah Nur remotely accesses Cerebro, a brainwave-amplifying device Xavier uses to locate mutants and forces the telepathic Xavier, just as the latter uses the device to contact Erik, to make the global superpowers launch their entire nuclear arsenals into space to prevent interference with En Sabah Nurs plan. He and his new Four Horsemen arrive at the mansion and kidnap Xavier. Attempting to stop them, Alex accidentally causes an explosion that destroys the mansion. Peter Maximoff, having realized that he is Eriks biological son and hoping that Xavier can help to find him, arrives just in time; he uses his super-speed to evacuate the students and teachers before the explosion destroys the building, but fails to save Alex, who dies in the process. Colonel William Strykers forces subsequently capture Hank, Raven, Peter, and Moira, and take them to a military facility for interrogation. Scott, Jean, and Kurt follow covertly, and liberate their comrades using Strykers brainwashed experiment Weapon X to massacre the base, whose memories Jean partially restores. At En Sabah Nurs behest, Erik uses his powers to control the Earths magnetic poles, causing destruction across the planet. Sabah Nur plans to transfer his consciousness into Xaviers body, and use Xaviers power to enslave every person on Earth. Xavier secretly sends a telepathic distress call to Jean, and the others travel to Cairo to battle Sabah Nur and his horsemen. They rescue Xavier, but he loses his hair as the process nears completion. The team attempt to escape in the jet, but Angel and Psylocke attack it. As they try to force their way inside, the jet is put into a dive which throws Psylocke off. Kurt teleports them all out into an empty building just as Angel flies inside towards them. The jet crashes as Angel gets to the cockpit, incapacitating him in the process. Erik and Ororo are persuaded to turn on En Sabah Nur and, with the help of Scott, they keep him occupied physically, while Xavier fights him telepathically in the astral plane. Finally, Xavier encourages Jean to unleash the full extent of her powers, which causes roaring flames to engulf her and turn her eyes orange: incinerating En Sabah Nur to ash. Psylocke escapes. Xavier and Moira rekindle their relationship as Xavier gives back her lost memories of them together. Upon returning to the United States, Erik and Jean help reconstruct the school, but Erik refuses Xaviers offer to stay and help teach. Peter decides not to tell Erik yet that he is Eriks son. Using confiscated Sentinels, Hank and Raven train the new X-Men recruits: Scott, Jean, Ororo, Kurt, and Peter. In a Post-credits scene, men in black suits visit the Weapon X facility to retrieve data on Strykers mutant research, including an X-ray and a blood sample marked "Weapon X", on behalf of the Essex Corporation.
X-Men: Apocalypse
2016