David and Elgin lead a promising dance crew in Los Angeles, California who participate in street dancing battles at a warehouse owned by a local club owner, Mr. Rad. The film opens up with their crew battling another crew led by Vick. Their crew defeats Vicks crew. After the battle, David and Elgin go to another club to deliver drugs for a drug lord named Emerald in order to get money for the battles. Later on, David and Elgin are challenged by Wade, a rich kid from Orange County, for $5,000, they think its easy money. After winning another battle, Wade and his best friend, Max meet Elgin at a park. Elgin tells them that his crew will battle their crew next Saturday night, but Wade and Max think that Elgins crew are not good enough to battle them tonight. Furious, Elgin accepts their offer. He borrows money from his grandmother for the battle. Due to the amount of money on the line, Mr. Rad announced that there will be no fighting during the battle and hires a bodyguard for insurance. Nonetheless a fight does breakout after David and Elgin realize that their opponent has their moves set, due their crew member Sonny betraying the team to join Wades. The crowd applauds Wades crew but David and Elgin are furious that they have lost for the first time. Wade, crowing over his success, delivers the titular line, "Youre just mad... cause tonight you suckaz got served!" Wades crew takes over Mr. Rads club and David and Elgins crew leave furiously. Meanwhile, David and Liyah, Elgins sister, are falling in love. David picks her up from work and they go to a restaurant. While playing basketball with Vick, who decides to join David and Elgin after his crew leaves him, Elgin gets a cell phone call from Emerald telling him that he wants them to come earlier to do their job. Elgin tries to call David immediately, but before David can take Elgins call, Liyah turns off his phone, leaving Elgin to do the job himself. Elgin is beat down by some local thugs that take Emeralds money landing him in the hospital, in trouble with Emerald, and furious at David for not being there when he needed him. The friends split up and form their own crews, but neither is as good as on their own as they are together. Elgin forbids Liyah to see David, ignoring the fact that she and David want to help him. Rico tells David and Elgin about the "Big Bounce," a $50,000 dance competition purportedly sponsored by MTV which will provide the winning crew the opportunity to perform in a Lil Kim video. Elgin sees this as a way to pay back Emerald and his grandmother. Attempts to bring Elgin and David together, particularly by Liyah, are fruitless, as both nearly come to blows when encountering each other. Elgin receives a visit from Emerald, who tells him he has a couple of weeks to pay him back. He warns Elgin not to cross him or he "will never walk, let alone dance again." During the qualifying rounds of the Big Bounce, many crews perform and impress the judges with their skills including Wades crew. During this time Liyah talks with Mr. Rad about David and Elgins problems. He reveals that he knows the situation with Emerald and took care of it stating that Emerald had a change of heart. When it is time for Davids crew to dance, two slip-ups costs his crew a chance to make it to the finals. Elgins crew, however, impresses the judges and gets to the finals. While lamenting his loss in the semis, David and Liyah learn that Lil Saint, a young boy who has been accepted into the crew through Rico, was killed in a drive-by. The next day, Rico goes over to Elgins house and tells him that they should reunite the crew in honor of Lil Saint. David arrives minutes later, after Liyah asked him to come over in an attempt for him and Elgin to end their feud. David states, however, that in the competition rules they can only complete with the crews they started with. Regardless, both of them still dont forgive each other. Later, Elgins crew, going by the name "The Lil Saints", show up to the finals of the "Big Bounce" competition. Wade Robson and Lil Kim host the competition. The finals begin, but when they announce the winner, they discover there is a tie between "The Lil Saints" and "Wades Crew". Both crews refuse a tie. Lil Kim gets advice from Mr. Rad, who declares a battle competition, "straight hood," with no rules, even allowing other people to join the battling crews. David also comes and asks to join Elgins crew. With backup from their friends, Elgin forgives David and allows him to join. They battle Wades crew, dedicating the battle to Lil Saint. "The Lil Saints" win after they get the loud approval from the crowd. As they celebrate their victory, Elgin gives his blessings for David and Liyah to be together. Wade and Max, however, walk up to them, angry over their loss. David replies with, "Yall just mad, cause today, you suckas got served." Their friends and the rest of the crowd begin to chant served causing both Wade and Max to leave in shame. David and Elgin continue to celebrate with their friends and family.
You Got Served
2004