The film opens in 1996. It begins with the wedding of Dai Tin Yee and his girlfriend. At the wedding, Chan Ho Nam agrees to travel to Thailand with the other branch leaders of Hung Hing in order to try and recruit Chiang Tin Yeung to lead the Hung Hing triad. While 6 of the 12 branch leaders are in Thailand, Dinosaur, back in Hong Kong, who leads Tuen Muen area for Hung Hing is assassinated by being thrown over a building by Tiger of rival gang Tung Sing society. The following day, Chan Ho Nam and his fellow leaders in Thailand learn of Dinosaurs demise and agree to elect a new branch leader for the Tuen Muen area. The two nominees are Barbarian (Dinosaurs right-hand man) and Chicken San Gai (Chan Ho Nams right-hand man). Chan Ho Nam warns Chicken of the dangers of running for branch leader but Chicken chooses to run anyway, causing a feud among their friendship. Meanwhile, Chiang Tin Yeung agrees to head back to Hong Kong to lead the Hung Hing society. He declares that Barbarian and Chicken are given a time period to prove themselves worthy of leading Tuen Muen for Hung Hing. Back in Hong Kong, Shuk Fan begins her career as a teacher with the worst students in the high school and she is able to temporarily befriend them. Meanwhile, Chicken is fighting an uphill battle for his candidacy for Tuen Muen. Barbarian, who is a local of Tuen Muen, already has the upper hand in terms of support from the locals. Chicken tries to throw parties, but no one attends as everyone else is at Barbarians party. At every turn, Chicken is continuously humiliated by Barbarian. Barbarian even has help from Tiger of rival gang Tung Sing. Tiger provides Barbarian with his wisdom, support, and money. He hopes to gain his own control of Tuen Muen area with his own society with Barbarian as his puppet. All of Chickens supporters come under attack and Barbarians victory is almost in his grasp. Banana who helped run a bar for Chicken is accused of drugging his customers and is arrested. In reality the drugs were planted by accomplices of Barbarian. Shuk Fan is attacked by her students and Chan Ho Nam substitutes for her. He warns the students of the dangers of the Triad Gangster world, but the students dismiss him. Dai Tin Yee attempts to assassinate Barbarian for Chicken as a token of their friendship. However, the assassination fails and Yee is severely injured. He would have died if Tai Fai hadnt intervened and saved Yee. Afterwards Yee goes into hiding to recover his wounds. Pou Pei is seduced by Barbarians younger brothers girlfriend and let slip the whereabouts of Yee to her. She relays the information back. Tiger and his men burst into Dai Tin Yees apartment and rape his wife and throw him over the building, killing him. The final moment has arrived and Chicken has to face off against Barbarian in a debate. The debate is extremely heated. Chicken is barely able to fend off the accusations by Barbarian. Barbarian is being directed by Tiger by use of a headphone and mouthpiece who is the source of Barbarians quick thinking. After the voting, Barbarian is almost declared the winner when they are interrupted by Sister 13 and Ben Hon. They bring with them an informant. The girl who had seduced Pou Pei had earlier been betrayed by Barbarians younger brother and now knows all the dirty tricks Barbarian was using. Right when she reveals all the details of Barbarian, she is shot by Tiger. Meanwhile, Barbarian tries to attack her but is subdued. His hat falls off, revealing the head piece he was using to communicate with Tiger and all see him for what he really is. Tiger meanwhile is cornered by all of Hung Hing. Chan Ho Nam volunteered as Chian Tin Yeung decides to elect someone to fight Tiger. A fight ensues and Tiger is killed. With Barbarian exposed, Chicken is elected to be branch leader of Tuen Muen. The film ends with Chan Ho-Nam and Chicken Chiu as equal branch leaders.
Young and Dangerous 4
1997