Young brothers Walter and Danny do not get along with each other or their older sister, Lisa. The three siblings go to stay with their divorced father; while the father is away at work and Lisa is napping, Danny discovers an old space-themed board game called "Zathura" in the basement. He and Walter begin to play the game, whose goal is to become the first player to reach the final space named Zathura. During his turn, each player picks up one of the games instruction cards. When a meteor shower from one of these game cards occurs outside, Walter and Danny realize playing the game has altered their reality. The boys discover their fathers house is floating on an asteroid near Saturn. Lisa, who is unaware of the situation, prepares for her date that evening. When the boys try to warn Lisa about what has happened, they find she is in cryonic sleep as a result of the game. They realize the only way to end the game and return to Earth is to reach the boards final space of Zathura. As they continue to play, Walter and Danny must overcome the dangers presented by the game cards, including the appearance of a defective robot and an attack on the house by a race of reptilian aliens called Zorgons. Another card produces an astronaut, who methodically eliminates the houses heat sources and lures the Zorgons ship away with a burning couch. Growing increasingly concerned, Walter accuses Danny of cheating by moving a piece prematurely; when Walter tries to move the piece back, the game reacts as though Walter is trying to cheat and ejects him from the house into the vacuum of space. Walter is rescued by the astronaut. On Walters next turn, he receives a card that allows him to make a wish, and considers wishing Danny away. The astronaut warns Walter that he and his brother had played the game fifteen years before, and he had received the same card. He wished his brother away, causing him to be stuck in the game forever without a second player. Walter wishes for a new football instead and the brothers agree to work together to finish the game as quickly as possible. Lisa awakens from her stasis, and unaware of the current events, turns up the heating. This causes the Zorgons to return and anchor their ships to the house. Lisa, the boys and the astronaut hide on the upper floor but have left the game downstairs. While Lisa develops romantic interest in the astronaut, Danny uses the houses dumbwaiter to retrieve the game. Danny gets the game aboard one of the ships, but is caught by the Zorgons. Walter uses the "Reprogram" card to get the self-repairing robot to attack the Zorgons, and the aliens retreat. Walter receives another wish card; he uses it to bring back the astronauts brother, who is doppelgänger of Danny. The astronaut reveals he is an older version of Walter whose role is to help the siblings finish the game based on his childhood memories. Danny and Walter interact with their counterparts, creating a temporal paradox that erases them from existence as the future changes. The Zorgons return to the house with a large fleet, intending on destroying it. Danny makes a final move to land on Zathura and wins, creating a black hole that sucks up the Zorgon fleet and the house. The siblings awaken in the house as it was before the brothers started the game, just as their father arrives home. After they leave with their mother, Dannys bicycle, which had been orbiting their house, falls from the sky.
Zathura (film)
2005