In Zorros Black Whip the word Zorro never occurs, but a female who behaves like Don Diego in Idaho fights a cabal of corrupt politicians as "The Black Whip" after her brother (the original Black Whip) is killed. Hammond, owner of the towns stagecoach line and a leading citizen on the council, is secretly opposed to Idaho becoming a state—because government protection would destroy the system and organization he has constructed—and conducts raids against citizens and settlers alike to prevent order, while keeping his own identity as the organizations leader secret. The town marshal is meanwhile powerless to act outside his jurisdiction beyond the town boundary. Randolph Meredith, owner of the towns newspaper, as the Black Whip, opposes this scheme to defeat statehood, but one day he is killed after preventing yet another coup. Merediths sister Barbara, expert with a bullwhip and pistol, dons Randolphs black costume and mask and becomes "The Black Whip" in her brothers place, dealing a blow to Hammond and his gang each time they perform some heinous act in their efforts to keep the town, and their power over it, unchanged. Aided by recently arrived undercover US government agent Vic Gordon, Barbara (Linda Stirling) as The Black Whip is quite obviously female but, even after a bout of wrestling, the villains do not realise they arent fighting a man. Some reference is made to this in the script, however, when the villains are trying to determine who the Black Whips secret identity could be:  Hammond: Barbara Meredith, shes the Black Whip! Baxter: She couldnt be! The Black Whips got to be a man! Hes outshot us, outrode us, and outfought us, stopped us at every turn!  Hammond orders her taken, but the day is saved when Vic Gordon discovers Barbaras secret and removes her from suspicion by appearing in her costume and overcoming her captors. From this point on, despite relinquishing the costume at her insistence that she must continue as the Black Whip, he tends to assume the hero role while Barbara becomes slightly more of a traditional damsel in distress, even while she still holds her own in successive violent confrontations with Hammonds henchmen, and more than once saves Vics life. After the town has finally voted on whether or not to accept statehood, most of Hammonds gang are gunned down while attempting to steal the ballot boxes. Hammond escapes, and secretly trails and confronts Barbara in her cave when she removes her mask. He takes aim, but is struck down by the Black Whips stallion. The reign of terror has ended. Vic remains with Barbara and the marshall to help maintain peace in the territory.
Zorro's Black Whip
1944